OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS

82.3
v.\

/W

^el'o;^?"!!::"^-^^Phone, true

A Chronicle OF THE Regency

THE HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD,

AUTHOR OF " LADY GKIZEL," " MY LORDS OF Stroke,
"IN HER majesty's KEEPING," ETC.

Chaque age a son esprit, ses plaisirs, et ses moeurs. "

BOILEAU,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

1. N D N :
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

^ablisijers in ordinary to fttx XHajestg tfjc Qucctx.
1883. ■

(sall rights reserved.)

TO HIS OLD FRIEND

GEORGE LEAN,

Truest AND TRUSTIEST OP SCOTS,

THE AUTHOR DEDICATES THIS BOOK,

IN MEMORY OF
MANY MONTHS OF WILD AND PLEASANT WANDERING

IN AFRICA AND AMERICA.

Chapter

II. A Surprise .

IV. Carlton House

V. The Sluice

VI. Kensington .

VII. At Home and Abroad

VIII. Brighton

X. Downhill

XII. Awakening

i'AGE

I. Battle Magna . . ••• ^



III. Retrospect . . ••• ••• ••• "^^











IX. Hot Water . . . .-• ••• 202



XI. The Masquerade . . . . ••• 257



XIII. By Thames Side . . . . •■. 323

Leoline, Earl of Northallerton.

Archibald,

Earl of

Northallerton,

b. 1718,

d. 1765,

unmarried.

James C. Jervis,

b. 1720,

vanished 1745.

Selina :
b. 1722.

Arthur, Baron

Holies of the

Vine. Created

Earl of

Islington,

1765.

Jane. Thomassine.

George Vere, Olivia Staples,

2nd Earl of Osmington. T (died in childbirth)
1767.

John Vere, 3rd Earl of Osmington.
b. 1767.

Chapter I.

BATTLE MAGNA.

On a certain evening in the autumn of 1808, the
westering sun glittered, with the ripe redness that
precedes setting, upon the casements of an antique
dwelling. The fine old manor-house of Battle Magna
was erected by Sir Leoline Jervois, in the reign of
James I. — that identical Sir Leoline who was Chamberlain
under Elizabeth, and who, succeeding his
childless brother, became, in course of time. Earl of
Northallerton and lord of vast estates in the counties
of Lancashire and York. Having completed the
stately edifice to his satisfaction, he had the honour
of receiving there his Majesty himself, when on a
progress through the West Fading ; and the King was
heard to mutter, with a shade of envy, that 'twas
better to be a great English noble than a monarch,
since the former may live as he pleases in his feudal

VOL. I. 1

palace, and lay his head upon the pillow without
dread of the assassin. The house had seen many
a strange sight since that far-distant day, many a
sumptuous pageant, magnificent fete, and stately
funeral; had passed through a chequered series of
vicissitudes, and bore upon its weather-beaten face
the scar of many a wound. On the tops of the towers
which flank the broad facade may be discerned,
tipped with rays of sunset, by you who gaze on
them, the rows of brass culverin wherewith the
heroic countess defended her abode, in the absence
of her lord with Charles. How picturesque is the
crumbling pile in its antiquity ! Its rambling front
of hoary grey is pierced by latticed windows with
quaintly leaded panes ; its high-pitched gabled roof
of mouldering tiles would be red, but for a rich
parterre of many-coloured lichens ; its immense
chimney-stacks of fantastic form seem to tell of
roaring fires at Yule, of revels, wassail, unstinted
hospitality. But that was long ago ; for, to all appearances,
the house is almost deserted now. The
balustrade which stretches above the projecting porch
is broken here and there, its tesselated pavement
cracked ; and the embayed window, that gives access
to the ample balcony, is shattered in one place, the
rent patched up with boards. A single ray of light
shimmers through shutter-chinks on the ground floor ;
one blue thread of smoke rises straight into the still

nil'. Icliabod ! Prosperity lias departed. Like Sir
Leoline, who piled these stones one on another, there
is naught left of flaunting splendour but dust and
ashes. The steps leading to the terrace are green
from want of use ; the sculptured coronets and
armorial shields, whereon the Jervois' launch is
quartered with the leopard of Plantagenet, are
chipped ; the panels of the door gape from lack ot
paint ; its florid hinges are tawny with rust. 'Tis
but a pallid ghost of happier days, a phantom of
vanished glory.

And yet, singularly enough, although the mansion
is neglected, the surrounding grounds are neat and
trim, showing that the owner, if careless in the main,
can still display a vestige of respect for the old place.
These gardens, indeed, are celebrated throughout
Yorkshire. The venerable yew-hedges, which enclose
a square Sjoace of lawn below the terrace, are smoothly
clipped ; so are the arches pierced at intervals ; while
the tm-f of less sombre green is close as velvet. A
series of verdant slopes descends to the brink of the
sprawling Fosse, which is fringed by an unkempt
growth of wild currant bushes, laden with blushing
fruit. At this point the stream is permitted to meander
as it wills, 'twixt blocks of stone over a pebbly bed,
lingering in shady nook to form a pool, home of the
glancing trout ; then sparkling, singing on under the
jocund sun, until in wayward wandering it stays once

more to rest, or flashes, humming, rippling on its
journey towards the sea. But a bowshot distant from
the house the wanton is grappled and coerced by-hand
of man ; cribbed, bridled, buckram into
starched shapes and straight canals, squared into
mimic lakes or crescent ponds, surrounded each by a
turf border. Marble deities, standing upon islets, are
mirrored on its glassy breast ; while sheets of brown
beech-leaves, like little rafts, the golden relics of the
passing year, float undisturbed in corners, or beneath
the arches of a bridge. The noble owner of Dutch
William's time was bitten by the prevailing mania
for canals and tulips, but he took the horticultural
epidemic in a mild form; for while the low-lying
plateau was handed over to stern gardeners who
stifled nature, the adjacent heights were left in wild
luxuriance, where grand Scotch firs were permitted
to mingle their russet bark and spikes of silver with
vivid beech and feathery limes ; with gaunt, tall, black
cypresses and dense horse-chestnuts. So varied a
panorama as that which enchants the eye from the
terrace fronting the manor-house is scarce to be
found among the numberless splendid domains of our
British nobles. The valley of the Fosse, wide elsewhere,
is narrowed here in semi-circular shape, confined
by abruptly rising and broken ground into the
form of an amphitheatre. In the centre of the flat
plateau rise the ruins of a Cistercian abbey crowned

by a mighty tower. The spectator, from the terrace
where he stands, can mark the hne of cloisters, the
fretted work of church and dormitory veiled by
wreathing ivy, the abbot's house, the pilgrims' caravansary,
— all the details of the huge establishment
suppressed by Henry Vii, a parish in itself, covering
sixty acres. He can trace the windings of the
river, playing bo-peep among the interlacing foliage,
until it reaches the place of its imprisonment ; count
the temples that look from out the woods ; mark the
many walks, so cunningly disposed to charm the
wanderer with unexpected vistas — glimpses of ever-changing
loveliness. At the extreme end of the valley,
as far as eye can reach upon the left, the silhouette
of a town is visible against the sky, a mass of red
roofs perched on a hillside, Capon Minster's flattened
towers dominating all. Then, closer, the nestling
village of Stratton-on-the-Fosse ; and, closer still, an
undulating park, where red deer herd 'neath spreading
oaks ; and, closer yet, the green plateau, with its
marvels of Dutch gardening — a tranquil Eden. Birds
and beasts bask in the open without fear. Yonder,
where Norway spruces rear their pointed heads a
hundred feet and more, squirrels, as red as Rufus,
gambol on the grass, with bushy tails erect, dart up
the tree-trunks, skip along waving boughs with the
hardihood of unchallenged possession, as though these
forest giants had been planted there as exercising

ground for pygmies ; while across that flight of dripping
stairs, down which the stream pours on incessantly
to the lower level of a little lake, fastidious
water-hens pick their dainty way, like high-born
dames, afraid to wet their feet. No shouts, no whistling
of ploughboy at his work, no human discord,
mars this calm oasis in the world's fretfulness. The
twittering of finches, the drawling caw of rooks a&
they summon their fellows homeward, the ceaseless
babble of the singing Fosse — these are the sylvan
spells that to solitude add silence, and lull the world-worn
soul to blissful rest.

On this particular evening, which must occupy our
attention now, the domain of the squirrels was invaded
by three intruders. On the parapet of the first
bridge, some distance from the manor-house, two
ladies sat, their shadows lengthening upon the path,
as they listened to a narrative related by a maiden-one
of these ladies was tall, beetle-browed, thin-lipped,
with a bold countenance, that puckered itself
into smirks as she glanced now and again at the
other, with such an air of deference as a companion
shows to her employer. The other, aged about forty,
was stout, painted, raddled, with a large head and
short neck, a quantity of light hair gathered in an untidy
knot under a monstrous beaver hat, quick, beady
eyes deep-sunk in their orbits, and a scarcity of
clothing ill-suited to so overblown a figure. A I'ilaa-

silk pelisse was negligently open, displaying a shorts
robe of thinnest sprigged muslin, through the
lower part of which was plainly visible a pair of thick
ankles and wrinkled stockings. This lady commanded
attention by reason of her peculiar appearance. The
jewelled bracelets on her rough arms seemed to
intimate that she was a person of importance, which
suggestion was corroborated by a sharp, querulous
manner, as of one who is accustomed to obedience ;
but, then, on the other hand, her attire was of the
crumpled, flashy kind which is worn by vulgar drabs.
The stockings of common thread were woefully unclean,
and the low shoes of primrose satin were
unlaced and not innocent of holes. She tossed off
her hat with an impatient puffing gesture, and ran
through unbrushed locks a set of short, fat fingers,
much belonged, that stood sadly in need of soap, and
remarked to the jawbone lady, with a foreign
accent —

*' How funny such a paradise to have no master ! "

*beg pardon, ma'am," the young girl said, who
was standing in front of the strangers. *' Battle
Magna belongs to my lord Osmington, and he's here
now."

The foreign lady started. " That wicked, bad man !
Mon Dieu, quel strange hazard ! Come, Ambrosia,
let us go away."

'' He won't come out," remarked the girl. ^' Yonder

light gleaming across the sward shines through the
shutters of the library, where they are dining. There
are several guests stopping with my lord, and when
gentlefolk dine, they drink far into the night."

Guests ? And the house so delahree, like one,
what you call, in Chancery." •

In sooth, my lord deigns but rarely to come
hither," the girl said. " We have it usually to ourselves
— me, that is, and cousin Cyrus, and grandcourt
Pentecost, and the bats and owls ; and 'twill tumbledown
ere long. I shall be sorry, for I love to wander
in the corridors, and invent stories for the solemn
people with ruffs in the pictures. But I love the
landscape, too — the woods and meadows, and the
capricious Fosse, which tells me such tales as I lie on
the bank with my ear close to the water. You never
heard such tales ! "

The olive cheek of the maiden flushed, and her
dark eyes danced as she thought of the hours spent
beside the darling stream; and the untidy stranger,
amused by her naive enthusiasm, remarked, with a
hoarse laugh —

What are you called, so dark-skinned ? You
must be a Bohemian, a gipsy; yet you talk as one
educated."

I'm called Abigel Kowe, and I'm fifteen, and my
father was a gipsy," responded the damsel. " But
I'm an orphan, with no friends at all but cousin

Cyrus and grandcourt Pentecost Smalley, and the
tame rabbits. She's housekeeper, you know — not
that there's much worth keeping, after long years of
such neglect — ever so old, and cross and crabbed;
but Cy takes my part when she slaps me. Not but
what I can hold my own, for that matter."

"You look as if you could," laughed the foreigner.
''Ah me! if this fairyland were mine, I'd live here,
and fly from all my torments'*

*' He doesn't," whispered the girl, with mystery,
'•' because it doesn't belong to him."

'hearken, Ambrosia, to the little sphinx ! A
riddle. How — it does not and it does ? "

"Maybe I weary your ladyship with my clack," the
girl said timidly, frightened by the discordant laugh
and the forbidding aspect of the thickly blackened
eyebrows.

Non, non, ma mie. Our carriage at your village
will not yet be mended. It is better to sit here
than in the dusty street, where all the people stare.
Go on."

This place, then, ma'am, is the ancestral home of
the Northallerton."

One of the oldest families in England ! " ejaculated
the thin person, named Ambrosia. " Let me
see. Wasn't it an Earl of Northallerton who so
distinguished himself when the English beat the
Scotch in 1138 ? You remember, madam. We went

over the field yesterday where they fought the Battle
of the Standard. The title, I think, is extinct."

*' Yes," the girl said, with a sigh. " The last lord
was Archibald, who died a bachelor forty years ago.
He had a brother and three sisters."

Is that so ? " asked Ambrosia. " Why, then, did
the brother not inherit ? "

"Because, when only five and twenty, he was
embroiled in a duel about a certain baroness, and
in his excitement and inexperience fired before the
word was given, and killed his antagonist. For this
he was accused of murder, but never tried; for,
fleeing to Ireland, he threw himself on the compassion
of a relation of the lady's, who housed the fugitive,
gave him a small farm, and made of him his factor.
No great kindness that to one so nobly born, but it
served to save him from the bloodhounds. The
soldiery sought high and low in vain ; and Archibald
gave out, for the honour of the family, that he had
in desperation joined the Scotch at Derby (twas the
year '45), and been slain. "When Archibald died,
another search was made for his legitimate successor,
but nothing came of it. The fugitive himself was
dead — really this time, at least so it was understood
—and the search was directed, therefore, towards the
finding of such offspring as he might have left. But
what could they expect to discover about one so poor
and sunk in rank ? This unfortunate brother, whose

name was James Christopher, had had naught to live
on in banishment but his scanty wage, and his
children, if he had any, must have gone into service,
the sons as labourers, the girls as kitchen wenches.
Those who travelled to Tipperary to prosecute the
search brought back information that was deemed
sufficient. Ancient Irish folk were still living, they
declared, who swore that James had possessed one
child, a son, who in childhood perished of the smallpox.
It was well established that half of the population
were swept off by the scourge. True or not, the
story was believed, and, the title becoming extinct, the
property passed to the eldest sister, the Lady Selina,
who married Lord Holies of the Vine, a peer, who, inconsequence
of his wife's wealth, was raised to an
earldom as Lord Osmington. The present lord, who
is in that library, is grandson of the Lady Selina,
who only survived her brother Archibald a twelvemonth."


Then the place does rightfully belong to him."
*' Wait. My mother used to tell of how once a man
came here, poorly clad, with hair prematurely white,
complaining that he was destitute — a servant out of
place, I think — declaring that he was the very lad
who was supposed to have perished of the small-pox.
My grandcourt Pentecost flew at him like a fury,
mother said, and terrified him so that he ran away
and never appeared again."

'* Quel conte de fee ! " ejaculated the foreigner.

** Madam Smalley, who's close on eighty now,
always was a tartar; so that part of it's only natural;
but it is curious that she could never be got to mention
the subject afterwards."

Had the tartar been long connected with the
family ? " inquired Ambrosia.

All her life. As a girl, she was the Lady Selina's
maid ; and when the Lady Selina's son — the second
Lord Osmington, that is — married the Lady Olivia
Staples, she was promoted to the post of housekeeper,
which she has held ever since. This Lady Olivia died
in child-bed of the present lord, but during her brief
married life was oppressed by a conviction that things
were far from right. She used to say that proofs of
extinction were carelessly accepted by those in office,
because, if there was one, the Irish family was low
and mean, while the Lady Selina was worthy of the
fortune. Moreover, her politics were in favour of the
existing Government, and her influence in the county
great. She was satisfied, and asked no questions ; but
with Olivia, second Lady Osmington, 'twas different.
She groped about herself as well as she could, poor
thing, and had a chest full of family documents ; and
when on her death-bed besought her husband to do
something — none knew what but himself and grand-aunt
Pentecost. Neither of them did anything,
and things went on as before, and the present lord

inherited when the time came, without anybody
troubling''

What rubbish ! " yawned Madam Ambrosia, drawing
a cloak about her shoulders. *your marvel
hinges on a servant out of place, packed off, no doubt,
for stealing spoons, who told a lie, and didn't dare to
stick to it."

Tais-toi ! " cried the foreigner, sharply. " You
are a fool ! Go on, girl. I am amused. Is there
any more ? "

"Yes, ma'am; the oddest part of all. Four years
ago my lord was here, just as he is now, with a guest
or two from London, and they had been drinking port,
and had gone to bed at dawn, after the mode of
London gentlemen."

Never mind London gentlemen ; they are bad and
wicked," put in the foreigner.

"Yes, ma'am. My lord was not gone to bed, but
lay, gasping like a fish, in a great chair by the open
window of the library, to cool his headache. Presently
he looked up, for something was 'twixt him and the
light. I was under the yew-hedge, and saw the
meeting. It was a little boy, fair, with silky waves of
gold, so pretty, in a funny dress, like a mountebank !
Though his feet were bare and bleeding, and his
clothes festooned and windowed, so ragged as to hang
about his body, he stood up as proud as you please
before my lord, and held out a paper.

' You dirty little vagabond ! ' roared out my lord,
with an evil glare. * How did you get into the
grounds, and what do you want ? '

' Mammy's marriage lines,' the boy replied, still
holding out the paper.

'' 'And who may mammy be ? '

'''A corpse, alas!' answered the little boy, with
streaming eyes. ' I left my mammy in a barn ever
so far off, for she told me to make haste to you ; and
here I am, and here's the paper that she bade me
give ! '

"'A filthy tramp!' my lord shouted. 'Begone,
you nameless wretch ! '

'1 am not nameless,' announced the child, proudly.
I am Lord Northallerton.'

' You're what ? ' my lord shrieked, as he took the
paper in his unsteady hand and stared at it. At first
he scowled; but after a while lay back, and yelled
till he was purple in the face. I trembled under the
hedge ; but the boy was unabashed.

'' * A certificate of marriage,' I heard his lordship
read derisively, 'between Hans Jarvis, soldier, and
Naomi Snell. She followed the drum, I suppose,
your precious mammy, carrying you in her tattered
hood ? '

' Mammy said that I am Leoline, Earl of Northallerton,
and she never told a lie.'

"My lord grew serious, and his brow darkened

ominously ; for Leoline is an uncommon name,
tliougli it occurs often in the Jervois pedigree. He
sat a long time twisting the paper in his fingers, and
then, making up his mind, rang the bell, and ordered
his valet to take the new-comer to the servants' hall."

"Bravo! Then he took the stranger in? One of
the seven works of mercy ! "

Like a stepmother, ma'am ! He gave him coarse
clothes and food, and 'prenticed him to a carpenter in
yonder town of Ripon, where the minster is."

To keep him under his thumb," mused Ambrosia.
•" Not ill devised."

** But Leoline wouldn't bear it, ladies ! " continued
the narrator, hotly. " The carpenter gave him tools,
and explained the use of each ; and when he had done,
his 'prentice took them quietly to the common, and
calling together the boys of his age, made them a fine
speech, declaring himself the rightful heir to all he
saw. ' Was a Jervois,' he asked, with the dignity
that goes with a new suit of broadcloth, ' who could
boast of descent from Anne Plantagenet, granddaughter
of Edward HI., to be bound slave to a coffin-maker
? ' Where he picked up the jargon, I know
not, but 'twas effective. The boys, ripe for mischief,
puzzled ; and the obnoxious tools were committed to
the flames with solemn rites. Of course he got a
drubbing, and my lord set himself to crush his haughty
spirit. Taking him from the carpenter, he bound him

to Kimpton, our village blacksmith, who's terribly
severe ; and every one cried shame, for he's a poet
born, too tender for so rough a trade."

Abigel's face glowed as she wound up her narrative
of wrong, and Ambrosia remarked sneeringly —

This precocious slip of fifteen is vastly interested
in the scapegrace ! "

"And so am I," cried the stout painted lady, jumping
up. *i'd like to befriend the child, if only to
spite that odious Lord Osmington. Come, and we will
talk with him; for it must be that same boy with
golden curls who took my fancy at the forge where our
carriage is a-mending. Aha ! milord. You feared le
petit vagabond might be a trouble, so you put him ina
bottle and corked it down ! And you are a friend
of my bad, base husband. We will be even.
Allons ! "

Delighted with some plan that was working within
her brain, the ungainly foreigner waddled on so fast in
her slipshod shoes, that the others had much ado not
to be left behind. The park gates were off their
hinges. There was no one to ask the wanderers their
business. Passing through the humble street of
Stratton-on-the-Fosse, the party reached the forge ^
outside which there stood a dusty travelling chariot.
Something was amiss with one of the wheels. The
stalwart blacksmith and his interesting apprentice
were hammering away, while a second boy, of quite

another type, leaned listlessly against the wall,
whistling.

*^ For shame, Cyrus ! " exclaimed the maiden.
*you idle, brawny, ne'er-do-well ! Why can't you
give a helping hand, being thrice as strong as poor
Leo ? "

I ain't Kimpton's 'prentice, and I hate Leo," was
the sulky reply of Cyrus Smalley.

"No, you don't; no, you don't; you're jealous ! "
retorted the gleeful girl. " Please, ma'am, that's a
good-for-nothing lout. This is the boy whose history
I have related."

"You have ? " inquired the smith, rising from his
task in wrath. " Your long tongue, Miss Abby, will
get you into trouble some day. How many times
have you been warned to mind your business ? "

This is my business," was the pert retort. " Ita
crying shame, and Leo has no friend but me, who
am also friendless."

The boy, for whose behoof Miss Eowe was so
eloquent and ready to do battle, gave her a grateful
smile, and glanced shyly at the new-comers.

Joli bee," murmured the stout one. " What did
3'ou do, mon enfant, with de certificate — de marriage
lines?"

"My lord hath it still," rejoined Leoline, his blue
eyes staring with astonishment in that a stranger
should be interested in his case.

VOL. I. -2

And your mammy gave you nothing else ? '*

Oh yes ! " interrupted the maid, who was always,
apparently, at high pressure. " A seal, bearing the
family arms. Leo, show your seal to the kind ladies."

No papers ? "

"No, madam," replied the lad. "But her dying
words never leave my memory. ' Leoline,' she said,
holding my fingers tight, for she was too near the
better world to see aught any more in this, ' preserve
the relic always, and the sense of who you are will
keep you straight through life. A proper pride has
naught akin to vanity. Before God you are the earl,
though before man you'll never be, for you have no
money and no proofs, and no means of getting either.'
And then she lay back and died."

Strange ! n'est-ce-pas, Ambrosia," murmured the
foreigner, sinking into reverie. Then, tapping the
boy on the shoulder, she said, "What do you think
of me?"

Of you, madam ? " stammered the blushing lad,
as he gazed at the raddled cheeks and blackened eyebrows.


"I am fat and awkward and ugly. I know that;
my sweet husband has told me so often enough.
What I mean is, would you like to live with an ugly,
awkward, unhappy woman like me, rather than
hammer iron?"

Oh, ma'am, how good and kind — an angel ! " cried

the maid, entranced in that her humble arrow should
have hit its mark.

'' Tut, tut ! Here's a coil," growled the blacksmith,
testily. " Do you think, fm-rin or not, that you can
walk off like that with a British 'prentice ? He's no
free agent, let me tell you. Your chaise is ship-shape
now, and the sooner you go off in it the better. Live
with you, forsooth ! Drat these terriers ! "

'* But I'll adopt your apprentice," insisted the stout
lady; while the thin one, in a voluble torrent of
French, implored her to be cautious.

*' I won't be cautious," snapped the former, in the
same tongue. " I never was cautious, and I hate it.
There is a mystery here which concerns Lord Islington,
and as he's the chosen ally of my devil of a
husband, it will be a pleasure to work him ill. The
boy's a nice boy, too, and I mean to have him, and
therefore you'll be good enough to be silent."

So spake the stout lady, and turned again with
imperious mien towards the blacksmith.

"You've a slave, and want a horace. That is fair.
I want your slave. What is his price ? "

"Did a human mortal ever!" ejaculated the
bewildered artisan, scratching his grizzled poll.
*' Excuse me, but I don't know you, and don't want
to. And here you come dropping from the clouds ina
broken shay to whisk off my 'prentice. Is there
anything else you'd like to take? There are some

lovely bantams in the backyard. It's moon-looseness,
and nothing else. Besides, what would my lord
say?"

"He is so interested, then, and you are afraid?
He bids you keep close your prisoner. No? Then
'tis a matter of gold. How much ? "

How these surrenders do go on ! " marvelled the
honest smith. *' Gold ? Repose you are very wealthy ?
A wider, maybe, from the Indies ? Anything to do
with Bony ? "

"I draw fifty thousand pounds a year from your
public treasury," announced the lady, with a stately
air ; " and you may gain by bending to my whim. I
am the Princess of Wales."

The artisan stared, and caught a glimpse of jewels
flashing in the firelight. " Whew ! " he whistled ; and
slowly doffing his cap, looked at the thin companion
with suspicion. " Can that be ? " he asked.

** Quite true," she said ; "and I am Madam Ambrosia
Cotton, lady-in-waiting on her Royal Highness. She
has been taking a tour through your charming country,
and we are on our way to town."

"God bless you, ma'am," murmured the rough
fellow, with a trembling voice. "We heard you were
somewhere in the North. The country's sorry for
you, and the insults you endure ; but you'll have your
own, ma'am, never fear, or there isn't justice on the
globe. Afraid of my lord? Not I. You can take

the boy and welcome, and he too highly honoured.
A good lad, if dreamy and too fond of butterflies and
flowers, and such trash, and scrawling foolish rhymes
upon clean paper. I'd be loth to stand in his light,
and will have his indentures cancelled if you say the
word. My lord can't hurt me, and Leoline will never
make a tester in the smithy. A fig for his anger, if
I can give you a pleasure. Where do you sleep
to-night ? "

"At Kipon," answered the Princess. "Come,
Leoline. So you write poetry? You shall be my
poet and little Charlotte's page, who wants a playfellow.
Get yom* hat and come."

While the lad moved off, half-dazed at this sudden
h'eak of fortune, the smith assisted the ladies to
mount, and peering in at the window with profound
secrecy, whispered —

Beg pardon, ma'am, but do you know who's at
Battle Magna ? "

Your mauvais sujet of a lord."

Yes ; from Doncaster for a night or two, and with
him Lord Alvanley and — the Prince of Wales ! "

The Prince ! Pas possible. What need have I
to care ? Tant mieux. I will stop at Ripon tomorrow
in hope of meeting him, for he loves not to meet me.
Arrange this matter of the boy, and I will send money,
what you want, from London. Allons ! Be quick,
Leoline. Now, fouette cocher ! "

The carriage rolled away under the glittering star
in a cloud of dust, while the Princess wrapped her new
acquisition in unnecessary coverings, as a strange and
fragile toy is wrapped in wool.

Chapter II,

A Surprise.

Of all the queer starts that's the queerest. Was I
right or wrong ? " reflected the blacksmith, as, wagging
his head with portentous solemnity, he replaced his
woollen cap and retired within his cottage. " No.
It's killing a brace of birds — doing a good turn to the
boy and pleasing the injured Princess ; that can't be
wrong."

Abigel and her cousin Cyrus were left standing in
the road ; the maiden with a flush of triumph on her
face, which she was at no pains to conceal, while her
big companion stood straddle-legged, his large paws
plunged deep in breeches pockets and his tongue in
his cheek, frowning down at her.

You've done it," he grunted. ** Won't my lord
be in a fume ! "

*dear Leo!" murmured the girl. *^ He'll be a
London gentleman, and ride in a coach and six some
day, perhaps, and all through little me ! A lion and
a mouse. Oh, Cy dear, I am so happy ! "

*' You'll be less happy when my lord knows of it,"
reflected her cousin ; and as he thought of the royal
lady's eccentric whim, the frown gave place to a broad
grin of satisfaction, which was better suited to his
style of countenance.

"Who'll tell my lord?" he inquired of the landscape.
** Some one must. My word ! Won't he
play havoc with the furniture ! "

'^ Tell him ? I will," returned the damsel, promptly.
Do you suppose I am afraid of Lord Osmington ? "

No, little Abby ; I don't think you ever were
afraid, not even of grandam Pentecost. 'Twill come
best from you, for you are every one's pet."

Come along, then. If a thing's to be done, no
time like the present." And hand in hand the boy
and girl sped along the neglected avenue, with the
nimble fleetness of game chased by the hunter.

Miss Abigel Eowe, self-constituted paladin of the
oppressed, was, as she told the Princess, fifteen years
old, one year the junior of her cousin, whom she held
in silken fetters. Indeed, despite her youth, the virile
energy of her mind exerted over the bovine persons
among whom it was her lot to dwell a stronger
influence than they themselves suspected. It was the
fashion to let Miss Abby have her way, and even
Lord Osmington, when he came northward, elected to
humour the favourite.

Grandcourt Pentecost stood alone in resistance to

her wiles ; but, then, Madam Smalley was so different
from other folk. She was supposed to he the
repository of important secrets connected with the
families of Northallerton and Osmington. No one
knew it as a fact, for, despite her sex, she studiously
avoided gossip— had actually managed to vegetate in
the old house through a long life without making a
single friend of her own rank. The Lady Selina who
inherited her unlucky brother's fortune was always
the kind patroness of Pentecost ; so was Olivia,
mother of the present lord — in a different way ; for she
was weak and nervous, only too glad to resign the
cares of a large household into the hands of a tried
dependent.

On the demise of the chatelaine she took the
master in hand as well as the domestics. Nothing
could be done without the approbation of the housekeeper,
and when he in turn descended into the vault,
his son looked on the old servant in the light of a
second mother. And well he might, for she had
nursed him with extreme devotion. Vere, present
lord, had seen at the opening of this chronicle
some forty summers, but he had lived so fast and
become so finished a roue that he was a hundred at
least in mundane experience, and no little fouled by
contact with its slime. He was one of that wild
circle whom the Heir-apparent counted as his friends
at the outset of his career, vying in rowdy recklessness

with Barrymore and Coleraine, as inveterate
a gambler as Fox, deeper sunk in the slough of
debauchery even than the Earl of Fife. Yet as a
youth he had begun well enough, had fought gallantly
against his country's foes, and had shown that he was
no coward ; but, falling into questionable company, he
had slipped downhill with amazing swiftness, and
soon out-herded his comrades. It followed that the
dissipated buck who delighted in rioting and chambering
loved the town and loathed the country ; that he
never visited his property, except for the grinding out
of funds to meet his prodigious expenditure. Many
a grand oak had already fallen to pay for a harlot's
caprice, and, splendid as was his rent-roll, he was always
complaining that he could not live without the Jews.
Deprived of a master's care. Battle Magna fell into ruin.
The grounds were kept in tolerable order by a few
labourers, but the tiles flew one by one from the roof
unheeded, and the elements worked their will upon
the rafters. Mrs. Smalley took no notice ; for if the
master was content to let the mansion crumble, why
should a servant fret ? Moreover, there was a cause
to account for culpable negligence. Always taciturn,
a visible change came over Pentecost after the visit
of the white worn man whom she had sent violently
packing. Solitary, friendless, haunted by carling
reminiscences, conscious of neglect on the part of her
foster-child, she took to drink, locked herself with a

bottle in her chamber, refusing to open if any one
knocked, numbing to herself with monotonous plaint
of how sorely she was afflicted. It became a standard
jest at Stratton-on-the-Fosse, that drink was no
comfort to Madam Smalley, for the more maudlin she
grew the more was she afflicted, the more she sighed
and whimpered. But she showed no signs of blabbing.
Far from it. Nor Cyrus nor Abigei could learn anything
of the past. Indiscreet questions were parried
by a curt rejoinder, and were usually followed, in the
gM's case at least, by a box on the ears or a smart
slap upon the cheek.

And so the years flew on rapidly, by reason of their
restlessness. Cy became a hulking youth of sixteen,,
who shrank from his book, and whose muscles were the
terror of the neighbor-hood ; while Abigei grew up to
medium height, and assumed the graces of a woman.
At fifteen, she was forward for her age, not to say precocious;
tormented by vague aspirations of quixotic
loftiness and impracticability, impulsive, domineering,
blunt and downright ; uncompromising in her dislikes,
but trusty and true to those who possessed a
place in her affections. In outward appearance she
was comely enough ; of gipsy type, with a face of
a regular oval, olive cheeks, dark flashing eyes, short
black hair straying in wanton curls all over a shapely
head. Around her ripe red lips were dimples of careless
glee, which gave place at times to furrows of deep

wrath — when provoked, for instance, by cousin Cy, on
which numerous occasions her neat figure swelled and
palpitated, while she stamped her tiny feet and doubled
her little fists. Cy, of course, professed to be over head
and ears in love with his engaging cousin, after the
blundering manner of hobbledehoyhood, and displayed
his affection, as boys will, by a system of teazing ; but
having succeeded in rousing the devil in her eyes, he
was always delighted to prostrate his strength before
her, and metaphorically to allow himself to be jumped
upon. With his big bones, large joints, and good-natured
roughness, he resembled a Newfoundland
puppy; a faithful, cumbrous, frolicking thing, with
which it is amusing to play sometimes, but whose
gambols are apt to be aggravating. Master Sm alley
was not much oppressed by his intellect ; at any rate,
his brains were uncultured. His intelligence seemed to
lie in his hands rather than his pate, and the honest,
simple soul within was racked with anguished jealousy
when by slow degrees it broke on him that his quick-witted,
irascible Abby preferred another playfellow to
his hulking self. Perchance she exaggerated an affection
for Leoline as a return for her cousin's teazing ;
perhaps she was swayed by the unconscious spirit of
coquetry which buds with womanhood. Be that as
it may, it dawned on him that Abigel was unduly
fond of tripping down to the forge to discourse
with the golden-haired 'prentice. The mystery that

shrouded his origin had charms for her romantic
nature, while the glimpses which he appeared to have
into a higher sphere filled her with awe and admiration.
And then he needed comforting, for he was never
out of trouble. If the day was fine, he would play
truant, retire with a crust into the recesses of a wood,,
and lie gazing motionless for hours at the interlacing
boughs and shimmering leaves, dreaming — who shall
say of What ? Then, on his return, Mr. Kimpton would
doff his waist-strap and belabour him vigorously withal,
till his white flesh quivered, and his lips turned blue,
and he bit them till they bled to smother a rising
cry. But correction was of no avail. The sun seemed
to work a spell which he was powerless to disobey',
and Abigel wondered at his proud defiance of the
strap, and the toughness of his powers of endurance.
It was more fascinating to watch this paradox than
to play with the Newfoundland puppy. Leoline,
thoughtful and contemplative, took to Abigel as she
to him, taught her to prefer books to birds' nests,
encouraged the love of light and flowers and cloud-wreaths,
which were innate in her gipsy nature.
The two became inseparable companions, talked of
things that were beyond the ken of Cyrus, until the
latter was consumed with impotent frenzy, and vowed
that he could not comprehend what she saw in the
tawny creature. That we should show ingenuity in
making ourselves miserable is a natural law. Cyrus

took to hanging about the forge and making grimaces
at the apprentice, counting the number of Abigel's
visits thither, and breathing fire and brimstone.
Hence he was on his rack as usual when the girl
approached with the ladies, and when the carriage
rolled away a gleam of pleasure shone in upon his
heart. The odious Leoline was gone, while Abigel
remained behind.

It was true that Lord Osmington was entertaining
his royal master. The Prince of Wales, Lord
Alvanley, and Mr. Brinsley Sheridan were his guests
for a night, the first having remarked at Doncaster
that he wished to see the celebrated gardens, with an
eye to reproducing them himself ; and the party had
just risen from their wine and were strolling on the
terrace when the cousins appeared upon the scene.

With the outward form of Queen Charlotte's eldest
son at the age of forty-five, the world is sufficiently
familiar. His enemies — and they were many — were
wont to describe him as a florid, flashy, idle sybarite,
with nothing good about him save his clothes ; and
his enemies were guilty of malicious falsehood, as
enemies often are. He was unpopular with the great
lords of the more serious sort, because he chose his
friends for their marked peculiarities of character,
heedless of whence they sprang. His petty royal
pride was such that it was less irksome for him to
joke with his tailor than with the most illustrious of

the noblesse ; he could be more easily familiar with a
mushroom like Brummel, than admit into his everyday
confidence a Norfolk or a Somerset. An un-biassed
contemporary described him well, when he
said that George, Prince of Wales, was an amiable
Oriental potentate, who had been dropped upon distracted
Europe at a period of upheaval and transition.
The times in which he lived were fraught with peril
and anxiety, for new ideas suggestive of escape from
swaddling-clothes had been wafted across seas from
America — theories which had already transformed
France into a shambles, and were germinating in our
own land into a fermenting crop of bitterness. Throbs
of a new democratic pulse were manifest in commercial
circles. People dared to think for themselves,
and, unused to the process, rushed into extremes.
The idol of respect for things that are was overthrown,
and the worshippers knelt before gods of unfamiliar
mien, who might turn out beneficial or develop into
an abiding curse. Tongues unaccustomed to freedom
wagged beyond decent measure. The period, indeed,
may be dubbed the age of personal invective and
lawless licence of attack. Parliament set the example,
for within its walls a permissible sharpness of controversy
gave way to unbridled virulence. The fine
edges of feeling were blunted, and the general
acrimony, which was the direct result, produced a
coarseness of thought, and hence of manners. The

*' Spirit of the age " is a fair sample of the journalism
of the day, remarkable as it is for poverty of humour,
vulgar witlessness, and unblushing scurrility. If
private individuals were made to suffer through an
unchecked appetite-for scandal, how much more did
the Prince of Wales, who was the acting head of
aristocratic society, and unfortunate in his domestic
relations ! He was allowed to possess no virtues, and
yet it is an acknowledged fact that all who were
brought into close contact with him — men of probity
and worth, such as Sir William Knightonon — were
devoted to his Royal Highness. His faults were the
outcome, in great measure, of defective education. In
early life he was severely repressed and snubbed, and,
from want of a fitting channel for his energies, grew
selfish and indifferent to affairs. He had a peculiar
horror of death — quite European — and of squalid
misery, and a Mogul's appreciation of sumptuous and
expensive show. His graver failings were due rather
to bad example and an indulgence of passions imperfectly
controlled, than to innate viciousness. That he
was singularly unfortunate in his early cronies must
be conceded. When quite a boy he was thrown into
contact with Elite Orleans, than whom a more vile
preceptor never existed, uniting as he did in his own
person the worst attributes of tiger, ape, and fox
These cronies stuck to him like burrs till one by one
they dropped, and when they did they were replaced

by better ones ; but by that time the Regent's character
was moulded beyond power of radical change, and the
first impress could never be quite effaced. But few
even of his rowdy boon companions were entirely bad.
We will examine three of them now.

Lord Alvanley, a dandy in the Coldstreams, was of
middle height, well and strongly built, but corpulent,
with a short nose, like a knob between two moons.
Rich, chivalrous, witty, honourable in his way, his
laisser aller in the details of life must seem to a later
generation quite incredible. "When at one time he got
desperately involved, and Charles Grenville offered
his assistance, he sent in a schedule whereby his
debts appeared less hopeless than at first ; but the
following morning it was followed by a pencilled note,
stating, with characteristic airiness, that a single item
of fifty thousand pounds had unaccountably been
overlooked. At a country house, where he was
known, a servant was always set apart to watch him ;
for he persisted in reading in bed, and in extinguishing
his candle either by flinging it on the floor and taking
shots with a pillow, or by placing it, still lighted, under
the bolster. His manner was effeminate ; but, like
Lord Osmington, he had once been a soldier, and had
distinguished himself on several occasions so splendidly
at the head of his regiment, that he took advantage of
the circumstance to decline for the future to be drawn
into duels. He was a good speaker, ready in debate ;

VOL. I. 3

a first-rate sportsman ; as a companion, bubbling
with spirits ; while as for his dinners, they were celebrated,
and the guest deemed himself lucky who was
bidden. This was not so very reprehensible a crony.
Mr. Brinsley Sheridan was quite another person.
He glittered, like a harlequin's coat, with dazzling
points. He also was muscular, and of middle size ;
but at this stage of his existence, though stamped
with the brand of genius, was showing signs of
decadence, like a good shirt frayed. His once handsome
features were bloated with excess ; his pimpled
nose a fiery red ; his costume slovenly ; his appearance
premonitory of prospective squalor, such as his master
abhorred. Yet George clung loyally to him, for his
devotion of five and twenty years had been sincere
and disinterested, if servile and self-debasing. But
his moral standard was being lowered daily, by reason
of a succession of humiliations and difficulties with
which he was unfit to cope. Entangled and harassed,
he was constantly put to the most degrading shifts,
till, little by little, he undermined that reputation for
public integrity in Parliament, which palliated for
awhile the vices of his private life. Sheridan was so
conscious of the possession of a journeying tongue,
that he amused himself by indulging his power of
wheedling people, merely for the fun of showing off, and
when it was quite unnecessary. Instances are extant
of his overreaching clamorous tradesmen for the joke

of it, and paying them honourably on the morrow.
It was an unfortunate gift, for what at first he did
in jest he came to do afterwards in earnest, and the
result was a reckless Hibernian harum-scantiness
in pecuniary matters, which brought its inevitable
reward. He cared nothing for money for its own
sake, and never learnt to husband it ; for, like
many another genius, he could sow and reap better
than other people, but never could learn to garner.
The brilliant talents of the orator and dramatist
fascinated George as they did others, but all admitted
that the jewel, many-sided as it was, had a flaw in
every facet. At one time he aspired to be a political
leader, and although in him were united a vivid and
inventive fancy, a rich variety of language, an inexhaustible
fund of wit, yet was he lacking in industry
and penetration, so unbusiness-like as to wither under
routine. As manager of Drury Lane, he was, on
the whole, as magnificently unsuccessful as in the
Commons. Of his celebrated speech on the Begum
question, Burke, who hated him, pronounced it excellent.
"We all know the admirable qualities of
The Rivals and the School for Scandal, and yet the
results of his reign over the patent theatre were
deplorable. Never was there a more paradoxical
individual than Brinsley. The upper part of his
face. Lord Byron said, was that of a god ; the lower,
that of a satyr. His character was equally contradictory.

He had the reputation of never paying
his debts. On the contrary, he was always paying;
but in so indiscriminate a manner, and with
so little justice to himself or others, as often to leave
the respectable creditor to suffer for his patience,
while the fraudulent dun received three times his
debt. His improvidence was such that he would start
on a journey without funds, and be kept cooling his
heels in a village inn till remittances came to hand.
But with all his indolence and slipslop ways, he
could on occasion drudge like a very slave. Fitful
marks of excessive labour are discoverable through
the whole of his career. To such minutiae of effect
could he attend in the House, that memoranda have
been found of the precise place where the words,
*' Good God, Mr. Speaker ! " would be introduced.
So with plays and bon mots. The hard work which
he underwent for the polishing of the School for
Scandal is astonishing in one who made believe
to be so ready ; and this may account, perhaps, for
the shortness of his list of comedies. Perchance
he felt that all that was possible had been done,
and knew better than to fight against himself. 'Twas
hard to be called on to write a brace of Schools for
Scandal, He was never a great talker. During the
many hours that he remained in bed he was employed,
while others gave him credit for sleeping,
in laying the framework of the evening's liveliness,

and, like a skilful priest, prepared his miracle beforehand.
Nothing was more remarkable than the
patience and tact with which he would wait for hours
in order to let fly the arrow at the right minute.
The consequence of this practice of waiting was that
he would remain inert while others gabbled, and
suddenly came out with a lightning sally, such as
threw a glow over a whole evening, to be carried away
and treasured by admiring listeners. The result of
his powers in this direction was, that Mr. Sheridan
was eagerly sought by the most distinguished
amphitryons, and gave way to dissipation. No money
came into his pocket but what Drury Lane supplied.
Dazed as he was with success as a playwright, and
fickle by nature, he left the theatre to look after itself
never went near it except to draw upon the treasury
and the goose, unfed by its keeper, ceased to lay
golden eggs. " Be careful," friends said in warning.
I am too poor," he gaily answered. " Penury gains
nothing by husbanding its thrift; " and so he floundered
on, too thoughtless to investigate the extent of his
resources, till the time came when the treasury was
empty. Write a play, his friends advised in chorus.
But no ; he could not, or he would not, and sank
deeper in the mud and deeper. I vow I am not surprised
that George, dazzled and enchanted, should
have kept a tender place for Brinsley, bad adviser
though he was, a sheep of murky hue.

Of the third crony who paced the terrace by the
Prince's side, we already know a little. John Vere,
third Lord Osmington, was not a genius. A grand
seigneur of the strange type of his time, his delicate
face was blanched by late hours and the inward fever
of excitement and high play. So inveterate a gamester
was he, that there dangled from his voluminous watch-chain,
among a score of seals and lockets, a set of dice
and a dice-box no larger than your little finger. He
affected extravagant attire of a horsey order — a white
stout with a scarlet cape, tally buttons, and a low
collar like a stableman's ; and was followed, when on
a public promenade, by at least a dozen dogs. Not
that he cared to shoot or hunt, for rural joys were to
him a nuisance. An affectation of sluggishness was
useful as a means for the display of a modish eccentricity.
For example, when asked once to patronize
a provincial theatre, he *' commanded" the whole
dress circle ; arrived in pink with a pack of hounds,
paid for them as a bevy of ladies, and made them sit
up on the benches. His boyhood was passed with
jockeys and grooms, of whom he would knowingly
inquire if they were " slap up, demy, to the mark."
Not long enough at school to be educated, rich enough
to afford a contempt for learning, he arrived with his
majority at the supreme perfection of being mistaken
for his coachman. He could drive four-in-hand, or
peel like an onion when his nerves were strong enough,

and ride his own matches at Newmarket ; was posted
in stable-lore ; even had a tooth filed that he might
spit with the precision of a hackney-driver. In town,
at Osmington House, he was in his element : a constant
flow of people rushed in and out, of all ranks
and denominations and all disreputable shades.

To a man with a life so ordered, the intervals
were hideous which stepped between his pleasures.
Solitude was a bugbear to be exorcised by any
means. After a breakfast of highly seasoned viands
broiled chicken, curried prawns, green tea — he
would hold a levee in a broidered silken robe. One
secretary, one quack doctor, four animal painters, a
mob of fiddlers, writers, dancers, pugilists. Bores
and duns were kept at arm's length. The singers
and dancers, being of the soft sex, were admitted each
to a private audience of fourteen minutes by the
clock, and they generally managed to capture a ring
or brooch or graceful nickname before they would
consent to vanish. Then, while interviewing the
stable people, he would smoke three pipes, polish
snuff-boxes, select a cane for the day, and after that
submit himself to the barber, while some one read a
journal or scraps from the racing calendar. Before
sallying forth on the " Grand Strut," he was always
careful so to arrange the evening as to prevent the
apparition of the bugbear. Sometimes it was politic
to be civil to an unpaid wine-merchant or untried

usurer. " Gomez ! Read the roll," he would command.
" Who dines ? Ten covers only ? Pooh !
Twenty at least." And in searching the highways and
hedges such odd company was sometimes bidden, that
the butler was left to deplore a loss of plate now and
again, a guest his pelisse of sables. In days gone by
the bosom friend, as has been said, of Coleraine and
Barrymore, he exceeded in luxury and Mohockism
that pair of immortal rowdies. He it was who rode a
favourite horse up Mrs. Fitzherbert's staircase on the
Steine to the garret, from which unfamiliar altitude
the beast was lowered with cables. He, too, it was
who was carried about Brighton in a coffin, making
such frightful faces at those who approached to view
the corpse that one woman at least had fits. Such
company as Hanger's and Osmington's was indeed bad
for a young Prince just out of his teens, who was by
them disgraced in the eyes of the observant lieges. A
wise father would have gently weaned him from companions
of high rank and no morals, who consorted
with bruisers and harlots ; but his Majesty, as we
shall see, had by his own act abdicated a father's
rights, and his son, once deceived by him, refused to
hearken to his droning.

At sight of the distinguished group, the courage of
bashful Cyrus oozed out of his finger-ends, and he
allowed his intrepid cousin to advance alone, who
stood panting like a modern Dian gazing at a stout

Endymion. To her the Price of Wales was the
ideal of the awfully wonderful, and her heart throbbed
to look on him at last. There was such a naive
ardour of adoration in her attitude that the prince
burst out laughing.

What a pretty girl ! " he said. " Is this a
surprise, Yere '? Bravo ! Produce some more."

Lord Osmington turned, and his hard look softened,
for Abigel's abrupt independence and simple fearlessness
amused him, as a toy terrier might.

*'A protegee of mine," he said di'yly. "What do
you want here, young woman ? "

A protegee ! 0-ho ! " laughed George, while
Sheridan and Alvanley smiled. " Then you make
some use of this ghost-trap, after all ? A nice
secluded spot for a Parc-aux-cer/s. Sly boots ! "

Vera seemed annoyed, but replied quietly, " A
relation of my housekeeper's, whom I am having
educated after a fashion to please that admirable
dame."

Bless me ! To what end ? " lisped fat Alvanley,
raising his quizzing glass. " Vastly pretty, on my
word ; in an unusual style. My lady Albina Buckinghamshire
would give ten thousand pounds for such
natural roses; and such a spruce young figure ! Quite
an Euphrosyne ! "

Abigel blushed crimson under the deliberate and
impudent inspection to which she found herself subjected.

Although her idol was there in the flesh not
five paces off, she wished herself safe in her chamber.

** A very sweet, engaging girl!" the Prince declared
pleasantly.

**I hope Pepita doesn't know of her existence'*
Sheridan observed, with a nudge of his elbow.
'T would be a pity for such eyes to be scratched
out."

You're too bad ! " cried Vere, with a peevish
shrug. " May I never be respectable ? "

"For a change," suggested Alvanley, "just once'*

"A bond-fide protegee" repeated the Prince. *'A
tame lamb. Lambs grow into mutton; and what
then ? "

Egad ! I've never thought of it," Vere said.

I suggest that you bring her to town," cried
Sheridan. " There's quite a distinguish air under the
rusticity. She'd make a Lady Teazle. Would you
like to go to London, my dear ? "

Abigel thought of Leoline, now on his way thither,
and answered, " Yes."

*eyes?" echoed Lord Osmington. "What next?
Upon my life, it isn't such a bad suggestion, though.
She's well-looking enough, with a little polish, to dome
credit ; and there'd be the advantage that I need
never be alone. Besides, 'twould be an excuse to
banish Pepita and the others, who are outrageously
quarrelsome and rapacious — perfectly unpresentable'*

*' The gay Lord 0. as chaperon to an adopted
daughter would be deliciously fresh," cried Alvanley,
*' and the rage and consternation of the camp followers
entrancing. Vere, if you love me, bring
Euphrosyne. Sweep the garden clean, and plant
the victorious snowdrop."

*' Don't mind them, child," George said kindly,
observing the maid's discomfiture. " They're insolent
varlet, who should know better than to be rude to
pretty girls. Really, Vere, you might do worse than
have so neat a Phyllis to brew tea for you. Who
knows but what you might end by becoming range ?
Wouldn't that be comical ? "

Grandcourt might object, and I would not offend
her for the world," Lord Osmington replied. " What
did you come for ? You were bursting just now
with something. So's Cyrus, with eyes like gooseberries."


The remarks of the company had turned the
damsel's thoughts in another direction. To go to
wondrous London, see the world, meet Leo under
his new auspices, from whom she had so gladly
parted, knowing the value of the change to him — it
would be glorious. Some of those dim aspirations
that haunted her virgin mind might become solid
facts — the fairy babble chanted by the singing Fosse.
But a repetition of the question brought her back to
earth. She had to face my lord's ire for meddling

in what concerned her not. She suspected that, for
some reason of his own, my lord wished Leo to live
and die in obscurity, and through her act he was
whirled out of reach, and none could tell what might
come of it. Well, she felt she had done right, and
grew brave with conscious merit.

I came to announce," she said, in a voice which
was not quite steady, " that Leoline has gone away."

Gone — where ? On a job with Kimpton, I
suppose ?"

No. Kimpton has resigned him to a lady, who
has driven off London-wards."

By what right ? " bawled my lord, out of himself,
in a sudden burst of passion. *' Without my consent !
Dash, dash ! What right had he to break the
articles ? I'll have the villain hunted from the
village."

Lord Osmington was usually so cynically cool and
self-possessed that his friends were astonished, and
he curbed his petulance with an effort.

"What's this?" inquired his Royal Highness.
"Who is Leoline?"

Nobody, sir. A ragamuffin I protected, and who,
of course, turns out ungrateful."

^' Another protege," lisped Alvanley. "I swear it
rains them. My dear boy, I'd no notion you were so
benevolent. A philanthropist in disguise ! "

I would not trouble myself about ungrateful

people," George remarked with indifference, as lie
took snuff in bis peerless manner.

Don't be angry, please ! " implored Abigel. *' Tbe
lady wbo took bim is a grand lady, and will make ibis
fortune. It was the Princess of Wales herself."

'Twas now the turn of the Prince to be disturbed.

*'\Vbo? What ?" be cried. ^'iS'/ic in the North?"

To-night, please your Highness, sbe sleeps at
Piipon, and lingers there tomorrow."

Vere," said the Prince, roused from digestive cud-chewing
to animation, " order the horses to be ready
at dawn. I would not come face to face with that
pestilent female for a king's ransom."

Tbe distinguished company retired precipitately to
make their preparations for an early start, while the
mind of Cyrus Smalley was plunged in deep despondency.
He bad overheard Lord Alvanley's suggestion
that Abigel should proceed to town, and was
torn by a chill fear that he would never see her more.

CHAPTER III.

Retrospect.

The consternation which put to flight a party of
brave and high-born gentlemen, upon discovering the
proximity of one female with untidy stockings, seems
to demand instant explanation.

Abigel was too guileless and idyllic to comprehend
that husbands and wives can quarrel beyond repair.

Years before the date of this present chronicle,
George, heir-apparent to the British crown, received
i^ie sobriquet of Florizel. He was the handsomest
youth of his day; the most accomplished, the most
refined, the most charming ; the very acme and beau
ideal of all a prince should be. The fairies, who
always attend the christening of princes, gave each
her gift of blessing and flew away. But on these
occasions there is sure to be some one forgotten, left
out in the cold; and that one is certain to be the
most cross and spiteful, given to dyspepsia and indigestion,
unforgiving of slights. The offended fairy,
being more mischievously inclined even than usual,

bestowed two presents upon George, calculated when
combined to play ducks and drakes with all the rest.
They were called Imprudence and Procrastination.
Until the recipient reached man's estate, they did not
take effect. The presents of fairies never do. In the
ordinary course the beautiful Florizel grew up, passed
through teething and measles, and all that, and was
worshipped by the fair sex, as beautiful princes are ;
but, being deprived by those cruel cadeaux of requisite
mental ballast, he was tossed like a helpless cork on
the waters of temptation, beguiled into whirlpools and
eddies by sycophants and flatterers. Gayest and most
seductive of Fortune's favourites, he tasted, as a boy,
of every pleasure, basked in the beams of the present,
forgetting that every enjoyment in this mortal life hasa
dose of gall attached to it — that after every earthly
feast mine host brings in the bill. Florizel, urged and
encom-aged so to do, scattered his wild oats broadcast,
and a pretty crop they were. His natural mentors
were his parents ; but, dull, bigoted, shallow, narrow-minded,
and severe, their unseasonable harshness
could not but irritate a lad of spirit, who was accustomed
to be spoiled and pampered. Instead of reclaiming
the volatile but sweet-tempered youth by a
judicious display of gentle reproof, they repressed and
called him vulgar names. Of his own accord he
made several efforts to occupy himself worthily, but
was forthwith by a wakeful jealousy coerced. Within

him, in early manhood, there was a wealth of human
force imprisoned. 'Tis a thing that defies constraint :
if dammed in a fair channel 'twill worm an exit through
the mud. Wise, dependable advisers Prince Florizel
had none. There was not a single person of age and
influence to speak quietly and seriously at the right
moment, to point out that in the footsteps of the
Present walks the Future, carrying a carpet-bag stuffed
with responsibilities and cares; and he went his
unguided way, stung to obstinate resistance by the
act of those very parents who should have led him
by the hand.

On the 21st of December, 1785, at the age of
twenty-three, he took unto himself a rib — espoused
a beautiful and virtuous lady, who, unluckily enough,
was on various counts grievously obnoxious to the
elders. She was a subject ; she was six years older
than her lord ; worst of all, she was a Papist, which
last form of obnoxiousness was very awful indeed in
the opinion of the bigoted sovereign — for the garment
of the Scarlet Woman affected his Majesty, just as a
rag of the same colour is known to exasperate a bull.
Such an alliance was not to be endured. It was
illegal, impossible. Holy Sacrament forsooth ! 
! The creature was not married at all ; was no
better than she should be. A wife ? Pooh ! The
low, artful hussy was a mistress ; the too beautiful
glut was a brazen, designing baggage, who ought to

be ashamed of herself. Such an attitude on the part
of a papa and mamma who had never been aught
but harsh, scarcely mended matters. The young
gentleman clove to his wife, while the King and Queen
were never tired of abusing her. The quarrel, waged
on one side by blind intolerance, on the other by
obstinate indignation, waxed so hot that all communication
ceased between the parents and their
offspring. Time went on. The fatal christening gifts
began to operate, and deftly did their work. Thanks
to the seductions of the turf, a fondness for dabbling
in bricks and mortar, and bouts of whist with dissipated
Charles James, poor Florizel woke up one
morning to find himself tied and bound by pecuniary
bonds to the verge of suffocation. He was importuned
in the open street, dunned, dogged, maddened, and
would have found his ignominious way to the spung-
king-house had he not been privileged. His spouse,
proudest and most sensitive of women, cried her eyes
out. The embarrassed position of both seemed
equally hopeless and inextricable. Since the family
fracas, there was no use in going to the King. She
was a millstone round the neck of him she loved so
well. What a strait for a high-minded lady ! She
would drown herself, make any sacrifice to relieve her
harassed darling ; for it was clear that, so long as her
odious shadow stood 'twixt father and son, the former
would do nothing for his child. Things came to such

VOL. I. 4

a pass that existence was a burthen ; and, hemmed
in, bullied, badgered, tortured, unhappy Florizel went
down upon his stubborn knees, and grovelled in the
dust before his sire. Hard and ungenerous always,
the petty tyrant — who by a whimsical jest of Fate was
dubbed "the Good," because he kept no mistresses —
took base advantage of the complication. He offered
to free his son from the gyves that galled, if he would
dishonour himself and break his oath to one who
trusted him — if he would wrench asunder with his
own hand that other chain, the precious garland of
scarlet blossoms with which he had chosen to adorn
his willing neck, and don another of his father's
weaving. 'Twas vain to implore mercy ; and, driven
into a corner, the wretched Florizel gave at last his
reluctant consent to a wicked action, laying the first
stone thereby of an edifice of retribution, under which
he was to be crushed till death. Mrs. Fitzherbert,
as dignified a figure in the procession of history asher
contemporary, the other discarded wife, who died
at Malmaison, bowed her fair head to the decree,
and retired from the scene. Her case and that of
Josephine were curiously similar. Though separated
in the flesh, both continued to occupy a sacred place
in their husbands' hearts — both enjoyed the sympathy
of the best and noblest in their respective countries
till the end.

Having forced his son to break his word, good King

George proceeded to violate his o^Yn. He did not
relieve his victim, as he led him to suppose he would,
from his weight of liabilities — allow the young man to
make a fresh start with a clean slate. He was content
to stipulate with Parliament for the annual laying
aside of a fixed sum for a slow and gradual absorption
of the debts, by which unsatisfactory arrangement
their existence continued to worry and hamper the
luckless debtor, to tie his hands and irritate his
temper for years afterwards.

As for the second wife who was to step into the
shoes of the Scarlet Woman, the household tyrant
would allow his son no choice, although he was by
this time thirty-three years old ; but himself selected
for him a bride who could not boast of one domestic,
intellectual, or moral qualification for the place she
was called upon to fill. No doubt the ghastly mistake
was unintentional, one only of the many blunders
due to his obtuse Majesty's well-meaning stupidity ;
but surely the King must be made to bear the blame
of the disasters which followed, since, while choosing
to be tyrannical, he did not take the pains to make
necessary and prudent inquiries. Sheridan, the
Prince's alter ego, foresaw what would happen, and
protested loudly against the danger and inhumanity
of the proceeding — in vain. Poor Florizel, pampered,
sensitively fastidious with regard to exterior things,
spoilt during two decades by all that was most lovely

"^^^nii

\a\^°^^

and highbred, found himself united for life to a coarse
hoyden, who had to be lectured by Ambassador
Salisbury as to the desirability of washing and of
eschewing dirty undermine. I vow that my lord's
account of the transaction chills the blood. The
lessons, unhappily unheeded, were awful, which he,
a man, was obliged to give to his futile queen ; such
lessons as an ordinary girl would learn by instinct.
Her manners were of a piece with her exterior. She
was boisterous, vulgar, fond of low company, indelicate
in conversation. The miserable Prince, already prejudiced
against the interloper, gazed at her in
distressed astonishment — for she was worse than even
fancy painted — and exclaimed in the first gush of
horror, " Oh, Harris, why didn't you tell me ? "

To which the ambassador replied, *' I was sent to
bring her here, not to make a choice."

The hopeless wretchedness of his situation drove
Florizel to seek strength in artificial excitement. He
fortified himself with drink ere he could approach
the altar with this thing of beauty, and shuddered
as, holding the coarse paw, he swore to love and
cherish.

A very little inquiry would have instructed the King
as to the girlish tricks of the virgin Caroline. At
Brunswick vigilant duennas watched her at Court balls
lest she should pass love-notes to young men. Once
when prevented from attending a fete on which she

bad set her mind, she revenged herself by so cleverly
simulating the forms of an accouchement as to electrify
her mother, who pronounced her mad. Such broad
practical jokes might possibly have tickled Florizel
if performed by Miss Doll Tearsheet, but the ultra-fastidious
Prince was not likely to approve such merry
conceits on the part of cava sposa. Of his Royal
Highness it cannot be said, '^11 subit courageusement
son bonheur'' Such happiness and bliss as his
Majesty had provided soon became unbearable. A
few months after the royal couple were made one
flesh they became two again, and nourished for each
other ever after a healthy and abiding hate.

Soon after the separation, Princess Caroline took up
her abode at Montagu House, Blackheath, with her
infant daughter Charlotte ; and the King, stricken,
ma^'be, with tardy remorse in that through his
bungling he had wrecked two lives, vouchsafed his
moral support to the lady. Meanwhile, the Prince
groaned under his residue of debts, and, entangled and
encumbered by them, was driven to add to the score,
and divided his time between grumbling at his father's
mean deceit and cursing the behaviour of his wife.

Now, it chanced that at Blackheath there resided
a certain Sir John and Lady Douglas. Caroline —
impulsive, ill-regulated person — was charmed with
her ladyship, who, thinking that such a friendship
might bring her loaves and fishes, vowed eternal love

for the Princess. They warbled together at the
harpsichord, kissed and fondled one another, drank
bottled ale out of the same glass, and, quarrelling
after awhile, set to work, as women will, to rend each
other's characters. Lady Douglas, perceiving the
direction of the wind, set her sails accordingly.
Nothing was to be gained by hugging the Princess,
while something might be won by betraying her
peccadilloes to the Prince. So she began by ridiculing
her quondam friend, and professing disgust at her
huge appetite and partiality for fried onions. Caroline
retorted with slander. She was always fond of gossip
and not particular as to its quality. Although devoid
of tact, she saw too late how dangerous a foe she had
conjured up by quarrelling with her astute neighbour,
and made elephantine advances towards reconciliation,
which Lady Douglas repulsed with scorn. Caroline,
furious, wrote anonymous libels to Sir John, whose
wife retaliated by inditing a list of her dear friend's,
escapades, and offering herself as a tool to Florizel
for the untying of the fatal knot. Sir John, as it
happened, was attached to the household of the Duke
of Sussex, and bore the list to him. The Princess
called for help on the Duke of Kent, who Alas on
unfriendly terms with her husband ; and so it came to
pass that all the royal brothers were drawn into the
squabble and swam in the unsavoury broth.

Untie the knot ! Such a prospect was too pleasant

to be realized, but it was worth a struggle. The
Prince of Wales demanded an inquiry as to the
conduct of his wife, which the King under the circumstances
could not refuse. A Delicate Investigation
was held accordingly by four noble lords with closed
doors, through which strange rumours filtered into
the ears of an astonished public. My lords Erskine,
Grenville, Spencer, and Ellenborough met at Lord
Grenville's house, and found themselves on the horns
of a dilemma. They learned more than enough to
satisfy their own minds, as extant letters show, but
there was a powerful reason against the delivery of
a decided verdict. Anne Sullen and Katherine
Howard lost their heads for the crime with which
Caroline was charged, but times were changed since
then, and it would be vastly impolitic to threaten the
wife of Florizel with a scaffold on Tower Hill. The
unruly spirit from across seas was abroad and ripe for
mischief. It would be extremely perilous, therefore,
to convict of adulter' a Princess of Wales. The
Prince cried for a divorce, but was told that it could
not be, for questions of precedent would have to be
considered which must not be raked out of seclusion.
The evidence was deemed insufficient to establish
high treason, but was in itself so damnatory that
wise men on both sides were equally anxious to suppress
a report of the proceedings. No one was satisfied
by so weak and abortive a conclusion. The Princess

remarked that as the commissioners had not declared
her guilty, therefore she must he innocent, and, secure
as she supposed herself to he in consequence of the
dilemma, went so far as to threaten to publish a
version on her own account merely to spite her enemies.
In this dangerous resolve she was abetted by sundry
rising politicians, who saw in the flinging of dirt at
the throne a ladder wherewith to reach notoriety and
fortune. Growing each day more hardened and reckless
by reason of a false position and its irritating
concomitants, the Princess took bitter delight in
shocking people, and becometh unconscious cat's-paw
of a party, a handy weapon for the belabouring of
political rivals. To Whitbread and Percival, and
afterwards to Brougham, she was an invaluable staff
for the support of temporary weakness. The second
of these — Lord Egmont's second son — was filled fora
space with indignation on her behalf, but circumstances
changing, his ardour cooled amazingly.

If the wife was displeased with the result of inquiry,
how much more so was the husband? The commissioners,
shrinking from duty, had stultified themselves
by a foolish compromise. " Undue levity " was
their verdict, which might imply nothing or so much.
The position was left in static quo ; but by their
pusillanimous bit of cowardice a dagger was placed
within reach of the enemy, which so contrite a
sinner would be sure some day to use without compunction.

Hers was no vain threat. She was quite
capable, if goaded, of publishing a garbled account of
that inquiry, and could tell any number of lies, since
the other side dared not rijwst with the real report,
for state reasons. The butchers of souls, she declared,
were afraid to attack her openly. Their object was to
blast a woman's reputation by a sidewind, and to that
end she had been haled before an illegal tribunal
huddled in the dark, instead of being openly impeached
before the House of Lords. Her housemaids and
body-footmen had been suborned to act as mendacious
spies. It was a trumped-up conspiracy, and she a
martyr. Was the Prince of Wales likely to be gratified
by such defiance — pleased with so lame a denouement ?
Hardly. He raved at the folly of the four effete lords
with their verdict of '* Undue levity." Disappointed,
he vowed that he would register their names and
loathe them for evermore. Discomfited in the main,
he scored one admirable point, however. Caroline
demanded a public reception at Court that the world
might be assured of her innocence ; and son and
mother, fighting side by side for once, shrieked
protests in unison against the scandal. Among other
silly things Caroline had written home to Brunswick
ii satirical and spicy account of the Queen's failings,
and that letter had fallen by accident or malice into
the hands of Charlotte. Her Majesty was a good
hater, and showed it now. She warmly espoused the

cause of her eldest-born against his erring wife
announced that his feelings must he considered — the
first time she had thought so — and swore that a
princess convicted of undue levity must he excluded
from sacred Windsor. The verdict of the lords tasso
timidly expressed that the accused had no appeal,
and yet her fair name was left with an intangible but
enduring blot. Caroline summoned the King to her
side in reams of vindictive rhapsody, but he, regretful
and ashamed, kept silence. No wonder that, groping
and purblind, hunted by the Nemesis of his own
blunders, the monarch should have become subject to
fits of mental aberration. Over this affair mother
and son agreed to bury the hatchet and smoke for the
future the calumet of peace ; and, despite argument
and protest, the Princess of Wales was banished from
Court for an indefinite period, which might spread
over a lifetime.

Whilst pitying the husband, one cannot help being
sorry for the wife. Both deserve our sympathy.
Under fair auspices, with all her faults, she might
have sailed on smooth waters and have reached haven
a clumsy but useful bark. A good partner she
would have made, for instance, for an obtuse, strong-stomacher
tiller of the soil, a boozing, beer-bibbing
Westphalia baron, or coarse Russian magnate;
somebody who was not squeamish, who could wield
a stick or knout, and make himself obeyed with blows.

But Florizel was the one man of all others for whom
she should not have been selected. In spite of hints
and sage advice, each feeble effort to be ladylike broke
down. A dismal failure. She found full soon that
she had married nothing but a phantom — a bowing
acquaintance with the crown of England, which the
royal family had speedy cause to disavow. How
ridiculous of a husband to dislike his wife because
she objected to soap and water ! Smarting under a
legitimate sense of wrong, a boorish woman, who
showed so singular a capacity for injuring herself, was
little calculated to accept face-slaps with Christian
fortitude. On the contrary, she would doubtless, in
the immediate future, toss her cap) over the windmill,
as our Gallic neighbours have it ; plunge with a
smirched following, like another Comus-crew, into
viler and fouler orgies. Who dared to prophesy what
might be the end of it ? All sorts of unexpected
things are hidden in the womb of Time. Meanwhile
it was not pleasant for the Prince of Wales to come
on the repulsive offender without warning. Her
tongue was long and indecorous, her manners lamentably
rude. Are you surprised at the dismay of the
group at Battle Magna when they became conscious
of the close proximity of the woman with untidy
stockings ? I am not, for I think it was only natural.

CHAPTER IV.

Carlton HOUSE.

The ancestral dwelling which we surveyed just now
in Yorkshire, though venerable and picturesque, was
sadly out of repair. How delightful, then, is the
privilege of the veracious chronicler who, with a turn
of the wand and a shout of *' Hey, presto ! pass ! " can
transport his ravished readers without any trouble
into an elysium of dazzling luxury ! Behold, ladies
and gentlemen, a stately entrance hall in the most
fashionable quarter of the metropolis, embellished
with lofty Ionic columns of sham Sienna marble ; in
front of each a magnificent bust of sham bronze by
Mr. NoUekins on a pedestal of scagliola. From a
heavily stuccoed ceiling, wrought in the classic
manner, depend six enormous lanterns in the Pagoda
style, wreathed with gaping serpents. Along three
sides there are rows of 'empire" benches, covered
with amber damask, on which are lolling a regiment
of drowsy myrmidons in rich liveries. Passing these
glorious athletes, you enter an ante-room choked with

chairs, sofas, settees, whose florid gilding is heightened
by scarlet cushions. Very beautiful. The walls are
panelled in scarlet cloth, broidered with amber sprigs,
the brilliancy of which ensemble, we will admit, doth
not set off to advantage the fine Dutch paintings
which hang thereon. In one corner, wedged in
behind a vast table of porphyry, is a pursy little
gentleman in a close flaxen wig, kerseymere breeches,
and a pale-blue coat, whose homely aspect harmonizes
by trenchant contrast with the superior taste of the
background. This is Mr. Townshend, the famous
Bow Street officer, whose business it is to hover about
the Prince of Wales, in whose service he has been for
years. In his bluff way he is a wag, but at this
moment he gnaws a jDcn gloomily ; for a churchwarden
and a sanded floor are more in his way than gauds ;
and a clinking of glasses, which may never touch his
lips, reaches his sharp ears through closed portals.
Poor tantalized Peri at the Gate ! Out of this vestibule
there are three exits : the one through which we
entered ; a second which gives on the golden saloon
a temple so thickly plastered with gilt gewgaws,
rainbow draperies, pagodas, Chinese jars, screens,
hideous modish nicknames, that the abashed intruder
feels an urgent craving for blue spectacles ; and a
third which leads into the great Gothic dining-parlour
— an apartment whose upper end opens into
a conservatory, appropriately modelled in miniature

semblance of a cathedral, with a marble Venus in the
nave. This dining-parlour is truly elegant — fit shrine
for an apotheosis of Bon Gout — and is much admired
by the elite ; for is it not divided into compartments
by Gothic arches of new and original design, and are
not the crimson satin hangings blushing like peonies,
while the lamps and fire ornaments recall the
characteristics of the East? Glancing about, one
has much ado to remember in what quarter of the
globe one is, being reminded now of a sacred fane ;
now of a Turkish mosque or Syrian harem ; and then
all at once, perhaps, the eye falls on something that
hints of Louis Quinze, or Sesostris, or the Parthenon.
How much more engaging to the cultured mind is
this omnium gatlieruTYi of specimens, culled from the
uttermost parts of the earth, than a commonplace
monotony of one country and one epoch, such as one
sees in many mansions that are rather proud of
themselves !

There are a few canvases hanging, by-the-by,
in this dining-room which I forgot to mention— to
wit, a pair of Van de Valde's chefs-d'oeuvre and a
priceless Rembrandt — but they are dirty, washy
squares, like black holes in the wall, and shun the
inquiring optic in the kaleidoscopic carnival of colour.
What can one want, after all, with craning after
pictures when Weltje's masterpieces smoke upon the
board and the Lafitte is circulating freely? The

curtains are so lively of hue, by the way, and
the carpet so vivid (made in one piece, and said to
weigh a ton), that I also forgot to remind you that the
hall is occupied, though the fluctuating current of
chit-chat might have betrayed to your ears the fact.

There are four persons lounging at their ease about
the table, two of whom you have already seen — Prince
George and Lord Osmington. The third is a stout-built,
stalwart gentleman, with a merry, roving eye,
and scalp inclined to baldness, whose round and
somewhat vacant visage proclaims him of Gaelic
stock. It is Frederick, Bishop of Osnaburgh and
Duke of York, Florizel's favourite brother. He is
Commander-in-chief of his Majesty's forces, and many
fine things besides. The fourth enchants the spectator
with the vision of a back such as can appertain to
one favoured man alone — a straight, square, unwrinkled,
unexceptionable back, as perfect in its way
as the leg in its speckless silk stocking and the blonde
curls so daintily arranged. Bless my heart ! We
must speak with bated breath of these same curls ;
for they have engrossed the concentrated intellects of
three distinguished artists, one of whom has exhaled
himself upon the occiput, while the other two have
lavished their energies to exhaustion over the sides
and front. And, as he turns, how transcendent a
neckcloth ! Spotless, creaseless, awful. The face is
not so taking as the attire ; for the nose, shapely once,

has been flattened by an accident, while the whiskers
are too sandy, the complexion too florid, the twinkling
grey eyes too small, the bumps of self-esteem too
prominent. You need not to be told that the Adonis
is George Brummel, whose features are crumpled
with concern, as he wipes a snuffbox with a kerchief.
He sports the Whig colours of an evening, his coat
being periwinkle-blue with brass buttons, his waistcoat
buff. The beau is not pleased, and vents his
displeasure in snorts and brow-pickering, like a
froward infant. He is not pleased because, for the
time being, he is not the centre of attention. Lord
Osmington, who can't understand him, sprawls on a
sofa, with his foot on a chair ; while Florizel fidgets
from his seat to the window and back again, on the
look-out for Sheridan.

Brummel is annoyed by topics in which he cannot
shine, and dislikes the presence of Brinsley, because
his humour is trenchant and his dress bedaubed with
drink, which latter crime is heinous in the estimation
of the beau, who spends four hours daily over his-toilet,
and changes his linen thrice. Brinsley is a
waning star, twenty years his senior ; but Brummel
is averse to rivalry of any kind, and likes to rule the
roast. He is no fonder of my lord Osmington, because
the latter pretends hoarseness, a fashion among the
noblesse which the beau is resolved to crush. He is
closely mixed up, too, in the doings of the prize-ring

is president, indeed, of the Pugilistic Club — reeking
Tvith mingled perfumes of the stable and the tavern,
and prates quite openly of the uproarious and unseemly
establishment which swallows his large
income. Brummel considers all this to be in the worst
taste. He disapproves of C3^prians, because they are
too iwononcees and say shocking things, and is never
seen, as other dandies are, in the opera-box of
Harriet Wilson, the reigning impropriety. He looks
down on girls of birth as giggling idiots, who know
nothing, preferring the society of duchesses, whom
he treats with superb condescension ; and they, as a
rule, take his notice as a favour; for, though the
grandson of a manservant, he has come somehow to
be the arbiter clegantiariim, and rules the blue-blooded
section with an iron-lined, velvet glove. This is
curious, considering that his wit was always of a thin
and trickling kind, which never produced a repartee
such as would bear to be repeated. Perhaps his
influence is due to a sarcastic tongue and cool, impertinent
assurance, which frightens silly people.
That the influence was all but paramount was
frequently shown. On one occasion, to oblige a park-keeper,
the great man gave out that breakfast without
curds and whey was an outrage upon decency ; whereupon
all true Corinthians rushed helter-skelter after
the commodity, and those whose cows were easy of
access realized fortunes. Brummel's social creed was

VOL. I. 5

the exact antithesis of my lord Osmington's. Noise
and conspicuous show were vulgar ; persons of low-breeding
to be avoided. His first axiom was that if
John Bull turns round to stare, your dress (most
important of sublunary matters) is too stiff, too tight,
or too loud — there is something wrong about it. His
own attire was severely correct and simple, varying
by delicate gradations with the season and the
weather. His horses and carriages were of the best,
but never showy ; each of his canes and snuff-boxes
a gem. Though his following were obedient and his
circle large, there were a few houses whose doors
remained closed, in spite of every blandishment. My
lady Gwydyr, for example, set her face against the
beau, despite the support of the Prince, declaring
that his superior airs were veneer ; that an unnatural
stiffness betrayed the rough handiwork of Nature's
journeyman; that under the polish lurked a petty,
trivial, and ungrateful nature — in which estimate her
ladyship was right.

The conversation which rendered the beau sulky
was on the subject of boxing, to which sport his royal
friend had given much attention, since he found it
expedient to abandon the turf; a pastime that
involved blood-letting, and offended the nerves of
Mr. Brummel. How could a man who patronized
duchesses be expected to take interest in muscular
persons who began life as butchers or bargees ?

What pleasure could lie find in discussing '' body-punishes
" or the excellences of the rival schools ?
What was it to him that the country about Bristol
should turn out a succession of fistic heroes of priest
quality, who were said by one faction to bear away
the palm, while another swore roundly that the Jews
in the metropolis were the deftest set of pugilists ?
The noble members of the Pugilistic Club in Bond
Street were for ever cackling over the two styles,
pitting the exponents of one against the other,
appraising the powers of Mendoza, the Hebrew, or
Molineux, the nigger, till the beau grew weary, and
yawned at the mere mention of ropes, subsiding into
sullen silence. My lord Osmington was recognized by
Corinthians as a connoisseur, and stoutly upheld the
merits of the Historians; while his Grace of York,
who thought himself a judge, was just as hot a
partisan of Mendoza and the Jews. The Prince of
Wales sided with my lord ; for Thomas Cribbb was a
Bristolian, and the said Thomas was attached to the
person of Florizel, in conjunction with the Bow Street
officer, by reason of his thews and sinews. Now, we
all know, or else we are disgracefully ignorant, that
the head of the Bristol school — liva^ av^pwv — was
Jem Beecher, of respected memory, and that Thomas
€ribb was matched against him for a purse of two
hundred guineas. They were both of the same faction,
hence a special interest, for 'twas vastly interesting

to watch the struggle between two warriors who
employed the same tactics. We also know that Jem,
as Champion of England, was compelled (although he
had lost an eye) to meet whoever challenged him, or
else resign the belt. Cribbb, erst a coal-porter, was in
the best of health, while Beecher was ailing; hence,
when the former polished off his rival in thirty-five
minutes, there was a frightful outcry and an unchaining
of evil passions. Jem's supporters insisted that
their man was unfairly beaten, for in the eighteenth
round his only eye was closed, and through aiming
wildly in the dark he sprained his wrist. Party spirit
rose to frenzy against Cribbb (who was quite an
estimable person), and many loudly declared that he
had no right to take the belt. It was in vain that the
upright Thomas vanquished all opponents, tumbled
over his antagonists like ninepins on the turf of
slaughter at Moulsey Hurst. Amateurs and mob-cried
out that Jem and Thomas must have another
bout; though why a second contest would be fairer
than the first it is difficult to say, since Jem was still
one-eyed, and Cribbb could scarcely be expected to put
out one of his own to reduce the pair to a level
That Thomas should have been attached to the Prince
of Wales may have had something to do with the
uproar, for at this time his Royal Highness was
unpopular with the mob, in consequence of the unceasing
screeches of the Megaera, who resided at

Blackheath. Be that as it may, the second fight
came off, and George won heavily on the triumphant
Thomas, and for a while was cockatoo, for though
his saloons were golden his pockets were always
empty, and he began to see in his pet bruiser a goose
that might lay valuable eggs. Vere, as he sprawled
at full length, was suggesting a match between the
new champion and the Hebrew Mendoza, which idea
was vociferously applauded by his Grace of York ; but
the Prince of Wales threw cold water, and declined
to bet with his favourite brother, for, indeed, that
martial bishop was as poor as the Heir-apparent,
and when he lost his wagers had not the wherewithal
to pay.

This was awkward, and the conversation, trenching
on delicate ground, began to flag. The opportune
arrival of Lord Alvanley was a relief to all, specially
to the beau, who was tired of playing second fiddle ;
but the adonis looked glum again when the newcomer
- began harping on the same objectionable
string, lisping of a fresh excitement advertised in the
Morning Chronicle, "A turn-up at Westminster Pit
between Beecher's celebrated dog Trusty and Jacco
Maccacco, the marvellous Horton ape." How novel
and engaging ! A special grand combat for a prize of
one mundi-ed guineas, to be followed by a bear-fight.
Entrancing ! Sure their Pioyal Highnesses could not
resist so tempting a bill of fare, but would honour the

spree with their presence ? The Duke shook his head
in doubt, for he was oppressed by his brother's
unpalatable hints about meeting debts of honour,
and there was grievous uncertainty as to the
winning of stakes when four-footed champions were
concerned.

I'm not sure about monkeys," he remarked, with
the gravity which the subject required. "They're
ticklish cattle that submit to severe shaking while
they claw at the jugular vein with the acumen of an
experienced anatomist. There's none of the pit-pat
refining, careful strategy, and honest give and take
which raises the ring to a fine art. This Jack, I'm
told, has killed nine dogs already. I don't like apes
Shall you go in for it, George ? "

*' No," returned his brother, shortly, rising and
drumming on the window-pane. There was something
on his mind, or he would not have been so
eager for the coming of Mr. Sheridan. Since fleeing
before Caroline and returning to town, he had been
a prey to the doleful dumps.

** You're plaguy sharp," grumbled the Duke. " Are
there any new worries ? Brummel's as cross as
sticks. That brand-new costume, Alvanley, ought to-smooth
his feathers. Come, Brummel, cheer up !
He's dying for your opinion of those breeches."

My lord glanced with complacency at his nether
garments, and moved his plump limbs about before

the offended censor, who was not to be so easily
modified. " Turn round," he snarled, with a
pedagogue's severity. " Closer to the light ! What
do you call those ? "

"Leathers," returned the dandy. ** Ain't they
rather neat ? "

Take them off directly ! "
I beg you won't," laughed the Duke.
I thought them nice," murmured Alvanley, chapfallen,
" and kept 'em on instead of dressing, that you
might look at 'em."

My dear fellow, at your time of life, and with your
pm'siness, you should know better," replied Brummel,
washing his finger-tips in a wine-glass with a ludicrous
pantomime of disgust. " Some people are too conceitedly
forgetful of their figures to learn. Impossible
knees, my poor dear friend, most utterly impossible
knees ! "

Never mind the knees, Alvanley," observed the
Duke, with a peal of laughter. "It's your face that's
your fortune with the ladies."

I wonder at that," growled the beau, " with
features like a warming-pan."

Lord Alvanley reddened, and muttered, " As good
as a nose like a broken knocker."

Though the beau was permitted the licence of a
court jester, a storm seemed brewing; and Florizel,
the amiable, hastened to clear the air.

*ris it true, Brummel," he inquired, "that while
we were at Doncaster you were in the country ? An
unusual move."

Yes. I was staying with the Abercorns."
I thought they couldn't abide you ? "
No more they can," Brummel drawled carelessly,
so I was resolved to be seen in their house. They're
not on speaking terms, you know, and I presumed it
probable that one would think me the guest of the
other. And so they did, and were amazing civil when
I drove up with Robinson and the luggage. Good
liquor, and not a bad cook ; but the country is really
too shockingly ill-kept. A sort of healthy grave that
wants sweeping and garnishing. Dirty roads without
pavement. Monotonous, too ; enough to give one the
blues. All birds and trees and cows are nauseatingly
alike ; while every bumpkin smells of damp straw and
cart grease, or bad blacking."

That's a fact," assented Alvanley, who was still
examining his knees. " The true use of the country
is to find food for the towns. Any one wilfully making
his home there, who isn't a green grocer or a butter-man,
is guilty of a waste of existence and a gross
abuse of mercies."

** Talking of blacking," remarked Vere, '' how
about Colonel Kelly? I admire a man who's unflinchingly
true to his colours. In Kelly the ruling
passion was strong in death ; for when his house was

afire t'other day, lie perished in trying to save his
collection of favourite boots."

So I heard," said Florizel. " Whether he lived
or died was of little consequence to anybody, but I
should like to know who's got his valet. A phoenix !
Knows the secret, doubtless, of the colonel's inimitable
blacking."

All eyes were mechanically directed, with an inquiring
gaze, on Brummel, who was equal to the
occasion.

'' I know the secret," he said, clearing his throat
with dignity, ^'and you shall have it gratis. Two
parts of lampblack to one of the best champagne, to
be used fizzing. That is the simple but essential
point. I half thought of throwing over Eobinson and
taking the fellow, but reflected that Eobinson would
die of it. He's gone to Lord Plymouth now, on a
salary of two hundred pounds a year."

"I'd take the place myself for that," sighed the
Duke of York. "Have you heard that Lumley's
broke ? Pity, for he fed us well."

One gets bored with the same dishes and the same
faces," yawned the censor. " No amphytrion should
last more than two seasons, unless he changes his
cook twice a year, and keeps a roster of guests to
prevent their meeting too often at his table."

"Oh," objected the Prince of Wales, "better to
change his friends than his cook, for real artists are

scarce. My Weltje, for instance, and Ude of Crocks
ford's stand alone ; couldn't replace 'em at any price."

"True," lisped pensive Alvanley. "Might be
awkward, though — oughtn't it ? Some men are so
ridiculous that if you cut 'em they'd want to know
why, and call you out. Not that that would affect
me, as I don't fight."

There's nothing worth fighting for, save lovely
woman," Vere announced from his sofa.

"Yet the sex leads you a pretty dance," laughed
the Duke of York. "What are all their names?
Pepita, Ildefonza, Julia, Isabel "

I love them all ! Here's a toast, gentlemen.
The three Ws — wit, wine, woman ; all good, but the
last best — when you're not bound to her," Vere said,
with a sly wink at Florizel. "I'm sure you'll all
agree that marriage is an odious and selfish
monopoly."

Yet wives change husbands nowadays," smirked
Brummel, "as frequently as we cravats, with less
crumpling."

Woman," sighed the Prince of Wales, " being a
rib, is nothing more than a mean and crooked part
of man. Height ! As for marriage, it has but two
happy days — the first and last — not even two sometimes,
ay de mi ! Chaise wheels ! " he cried, suddenly
jumping up. " It must be Sherry. Good Heavens !
wherever did he get that fine turn-out ? "

Mr. Sheridan, unkempt and slovenly, reeking of
the tavern, shambled in and tumbled on the sofa
beside Vere. It was plain, by the thickness of his
utterance and the tears of the tankard on his vest, that
he had already been indulging ; but as he joyously
returned the greetings of his friends, his eye was as
bright as a raven's, his bloated visage was puckered
into grins, while his sides were shaking like jelly.

*' Oh, such fun ! " he was beginning, when Florizel
cried, with impatience —

I sent you a special note, begging you to be here
early."

** Indeed, sir ? I never got it."

Never read it, you mean. Popped it into that
cormorant bag with all the others. Too bad — too
bad ! "

His Royal Highness was familiar with his crony's
eccentricities, which sometimes led to unexpected
contretemjps. It was well known that on a central
table in his study there lay a sack, into which all
letters and notes found their way, unopened, unless
marked private and important — communications from
actors, scene-shifters, authors, constituents, place-hunters,
bores — and that the mass grew and grew
until the bag was replete to bursting. Then he
would ring, and say, " Remove that rubbish ; they've
answered themselves by this time," and so saved
himself much labour. Sometimes, however, his 

HOWE.

attention to letters told against himself. Going once
to the bank, where he was accustomed to be paid his
salary as Receiver of Cornwall, and where he was
able sometimes to borrow small sums, he asked
humbly if he could be obliged with twenty pounds.
*' Certainly," said the clerk; " with fifty or a hundred."
Sheridan, all smiles and gratitude, replied that a
hundred would be opportune. *' Two, sir, or three ? "
went on the clerk ; and at every rise in the sum the
surprise of the borrower increased. It transpired
presently that, in consequence of the falling in of
some fine, a sum of twelve hundred pounds had been
credited to the Receivers General, and that Brinsley,
not having unsealed the letter apprising him of the
fact, had been struggling with a peck of troubles,
unaware of his good luck.

*well, never mind," said the cordial George;
** better late than never, though a bad lot at best.
That carriage of yours is new."

'not paid for, on my life!" protested Sherry.
** The coachman, poor devil, is without wages — likes
me too well to go, and I prefer to be all of a piece."

"Where is the money gone to? " inquired York of
the Gothic ceiling. " Somebody must have it, I
suppose. As for me, my pocket's without a groat."

Yes. I'm fortunate in my servants. They prefer
stopping, knowing they'll be paid some day. Do you
see that fellow I brought round with me ? There —

shaking his fist, sir, at sour august colonnade. How
dares he ? Let's string him up for treason."

I don't know him," cried George, with surprise,
after a cautious survey from behind a curtain, for he
was accustomed to the sight of importunate men
hanging about the premises, whom he generally knew
too well.

I know him ! " returned the jubilant Sherry
rubbing his soiled hands. "My most troublesome
dun — a Stafford man, a constituent — but I've succeeded
in fooling the nuisance. He came on me
unawares, the sneak, in a towering rage ; but I met
his railing with such radiant good-will that he couldn't
get a word in edgewise. How could I pay him while
Gunter's account for dinners lay unresisted on the
table ? ' I'll have my money,' persisted the fellow,
and will wait no longer.' * Show me how, and I'll
settle with pleasure,' says I. 'You should know
best,' says he sullenly. ' You know Gunter,' says I,
delivered of an idea. ' He's solvent, I think ? ' 'Of
course he is,' says he. ' Perhaps you would take his
bill,' says I, grinning sweetly. * Certainly, to oblige,'
says he. 'That's all right,' says I, handing him the
folded paper. 'Here's Gunter's bill. Pray make
what use you can of it.' "

That's splendid," laughed the Duke of York. " I
wish I could get round 'em that way."

He didn't take it ? " inquired Alvanley.

When he saw what it was, he smiled and said,
^Mr. S., you are incorrigible,' and became quite
good-humoured. * Excuse me, my dear sir,' I finished
up. * The Prince of Wales expects me, who shall
hear of your generous forbearance. My carriage
waits, and if you like I'll take you with me to Carlton
House.' Of course he was enchanted at the notion of
being presented to his Koyal Highness in a private
and social manner, and said, pressing my hand with
fervour, ' To Carlton House ! My very dear friend,
never mention the debt again.' *I never will,' says
I ; and trundled him here, chatting all the way and
cracking jokes, and when we arrived, slammed the
carriage door upon his leg, bidding the coachman
drive to his hotel. ' But I thought I was to be presented
to the Prince,' he stammered. ' Oh dear, no,'
I said, and so left him, and there he is still ! "

A shade passed over the face of Florizel as he
drummed his fingers with petulance. "You'll be
good enough," he grumbled, *not to drag me into
your jokes, for my hot water's deep enough, without
the addition of yours. I'm glad you've come, though ;
for something must be done. It's getting unbearable,
so listen and apply your mind. How are we to raise
the wind ? "

An ominous pause, while each glanced at the other
and shook his head, unable to cope with so abstruse
a problem. Those present had been a good many

years out of long clothes, and had come to he painfully
aware of the extreme difficulty of raising that obstinate
wind. The nut was too hard to crack ; so, seizing
each his bottle, they quaffed their Lafitte in silence.

Nobody who hasn't suffered can gauge the horror
of impecuniosity," declared Florizel. "Money, or
rather the want of it, has been my curse through life,
and now I solemnly swear that I can't put my finger
on a sixpence."

'* Unless a clock is wound at intervals," acquiesced
Sherry, " it won't go tick, tick, for ever."

Ah, tick has been my bane, and George's," sighed
his Grace of York. "Won't Hamlet the jeweller do
anything?"

No. Nor Howard and Gibbs, the usurers, or Jew
I\ing, or Solomon King of Charges Street. Tried 'em
all. No thoroughfare."

This was a grievous announcement.

Demy ! " began Lord Osmington. "Is it as
bad as that ? I should be delighted to assist your
Koyal Highness, if "

'* I know — I Imoww," interrupted George with the
glacial tinge of hauteur wherewith he could check
liberties on occasion. " You would provide us out of
your superfluity, no doubt, but for the ravenous maw
of Pepita, and Annita, and Ildefonza, and Mary Anne,
and all the rest of your Noah's Ark. We never borrow
from our friends, that's understood."

If we could only draw upon our enemies ! " said
Brinsley, with a merry twinkle.

*that sumptuously furnished sideboard," lisped
Alvanley, "must be worth mints. The wine-coolers
alone "

Pooh ! Stuff ! If I pawn the silver, 'twill be allover
the town in a day. People are so ready to believe-ill
of me, and I do try to be economical'*

^' Keally," gibed Vere, taking up a plate. " This
Worcester china, I've been told, is worth three hundred
guineas the piece "

It's impossible to dine except off Worcester"'
declared the censor, with conviction.

This plate I hold is monstrous-prey as well as
expensive," observed Vere. "The little dear in the
corner is the living image of my Pepita — 'tis, by Gad ! '^

Then take it home and hold your tongue," retorted
his Royal Highness. " I've been treated shamefully.
George the First's pension when he came was fixed
at seven hundred thousand, and before he died the-country
]said debts to the tune of five hundred
thousand without a word. George the Second had
eight hundred thousand a year, and his queen a
hundred thousand, and I, his great grandson, must
live upon a pittance — a mere pittance, by the Lord
Harry — or be abused like a fish-fag. A royal
personage, they think, is to be born without feelings,,
to live only for the good of the State and the convenience

of his creditors ; direct his ways by cold
reason like machinery, and support life on tasteless
diet. That's not my view."

'* Hardly," murmured Brummel, toying with the
china.

** I hold human existence to be so unsatisfactory in
itself that wit, flavour, laughter, brightness, perfume,
have been given to charm our pained steps along the
rugged valley, just as we give children jam to take
their powders in."

"So we dine off fragile crockery," laughed Vere,
*' worth three hundred guineas a plate."

Curse the plates ! " snapped the Prince. " Sherry,
you are the only man of resource among us. Suggest
something. The absorbing question of the moment
is, how to raise the wind."

Sheridan knitted his brows and confessed that he
was nonplussed. Just now things were really desperate
; for a vindictive silversmith named Jeffrey had
recently published a pamphlet detailing a catalogue
of wrongs due to the thriftlessness of George. His
claims were sifted by Lord Moira and others, and
proved to be no claims at all ; but, unhappily, so much
had been said about his Royal Highness' s liabilities
that credit was poisoned. Mr. and Mrs. Bull gave
credence to any libel, and sighed over the delinquencies
of the prodigal.

Parliament," mumbled Brinsley.

VOL. I, 6

'' Parliament indeed ! You must be doomed fuddled
to talk such stuff. Alvanley, ring for a carriage for
Mr. Sheridan before he's too hopelessly drunk. Parliament
! I vow that Pepita or Ildefonza would give
more practical advice."

"Ay," nodded Vere ; *'or Annita or Mary Anne.
Quite so. The darlings are good at advice, though
they'll never take any themselves, except as to the
value of diamonds."

Drabs out of the gutter ! " the Prince snorted
with rising wrath. " Pitch mayn't be touched without
defilement. I wonder at a great noble like you. It's
disgusting."

"The darlings are no worse than Madam Clarke,
the Duke of York's Mary Anne," sneered Osmington.
Your Koyal Highness's friend is a plumber's child,
I think ? "

"Leave Mrs. Clarke alone," grunted the Duke of
York. " You're glad enough to attend her parties."

"Of course," replied Vere; "for she invites the
whole Noah's Ark, which keeps them in a seraphic
temper — and is handsome and liberal of Mrs. C."

By-the-by, Frederick, that's something I want to
speak to you about," the Prince of Wales observed
gloomily. " You're too thick with Mrs. Clarke, and
there'll be a bother some day with the public."

"You want all the scandal to yourself," blurted out
his brother.

*' Hush ! There's nothing so debasing as low female
society. She's a designing minx, or I'm no judge of
womankind, who'll turn on you. It's all very well to
see life out of doors — I've nothing to say against that,
but to receive plebeians at your o wn table — for it is
your own table — is another thing. 'Tis notorious that
Mary Anne Clarke's brother is a tinman, while Miss
Taylor, her dear friend, is daughter of a common
stonemason, and they are always in the house. You'll
allow that they are not fit company for the King's
son."

*' When the fox preached, beware geese! " bawled
jovial Frederick, on whose modicum of brain the
Lafitte was taking effect.

"It doesn't become me to advise, I know," George
said, with increasing sadness; "but I love you,
Frederick, and should be grieved to see you in a
pickle. Money bothers one can't help, and, after all,
they are no crime, only petty annoyances. You're
just the Samson to snore on Delilah's lap while she
snips, and awake astonished at your baldness. It's
whispered that she takes bribes to use her influence
over you as regards the army. Of course I know
you'd do nothing mean, but John Bull is uncharitable ;
so do, pray, be prudent."

She never talks to me of business," answered the
Commander-in-chief. " I've very little coin to give the
poor thing, so she must scratch it together as she

can; and, then, she's so amusing. You should see her
strut up and down the room with a curtain for a train,
for all the world as stiff as Old Snuffy in person.
Such a gift of mimicry. 'Tis enough to make one
screech ! "

Brummel glanced at the jolly scapegrace who could
talk thus of his mother, and a faint smile of cynical
disdain played about his lips. Frederick's articulation
was becoming laboured; while the host, who was in
desponding mood, drank bumper after bumper without
speaking, and despair sat throned upon his brow.
When intoxicated, George had the faculty of looking
upon himself as on another, as though his spirit,
escaping from its tenement, could float above and
survey without glozing bias the mournful spectacle.

*i'm an unfortunate creature," he hiccupped thickly,
after a long interval of bibbing meditation. " Not an
interest to make life worth having ; not a halfpenny
to spend ! A pauper starving in a gilded temple, with
an army of duns upon the doorstep. Better to bea
wooden idol that can't feel. I wish — I wish — it was
all over."

Starving with Weltje for a cook ! " roared boisterous
Sheridan. '' Care killed a cat. Play us a soothing
stave on the violoncello, while Brummel airs his tenor.
Whate'er betide, be gay."

*' Why ? " retorted the Prince, fiercely. *' What
cause have I for joy ? I asked to go with my regiment

to Portugal. The King feared it might make me
popular, and snubbed me. He won't even let me be
interested in the volunteers, or take to anything that
would draw me from bad habits. He throws me back
upon myself, and always has — bidding me fill my
mind with love for that cursed woman. What a

pattern father ! May "

"Hush ! hush !" interrupted Brinsley; for George
was apt, when his tongue was loosed by drink, to fling
strong epithets at his papa, which, in sooth, were
well deserved. *' Look at me, sir. Sure wretched
man was never in worse plight than I, and yet I'm
jolly. My purse is as bare as yours. There's not so
much in it as would pay a hackney coach, though
yesterday I managed to make a haul by a prodigious
sacrifice. Hard come and easy go. A fellow burst
in and sold me — me, with my experience ! Listen, sir,
instead of weeping, for I know 'twill make you laugh.
The notes — the last I've a chance of seeing this many
a day — were on my desk, crisp, fluttering little
strangers, when in burst a tall thin gentleman like
a ramrod out of a musket. ' Glad to see you so well
furnished,' he remarked, before I could hide the store.
'Isn't for you,' says I, with presence of mind, ' but
to meet a debt of honour. They always take precedence
of bills or notes of hand.' * Is that so ? ' says
he ; and, before I could stop him, pulls his note from
a bag and flings it on the fire. ' Mine's a debt of

honour now,' says he ; and after that how could I
refuse him? Was it, or not, on his part a stroke
of genius ? "

Neither of the scapegraces were in cue to enjoy the
jest. George was too low to listen or to smile.
Frederick had found his level on the floor, and,
occupying a cosy place upon the hearth rug, murmured,
*' Mary Anne ; " at which familiar name Lord Islington
stirred on his couch, and rolled over and snored
again.

'* Peace lull thy slumber," chuckled Brinsley. '* His
vision is of another charmer, far cleverer a Mary
Anne than thine ! I swear I heard the early village
cock, or was it fancy — eh, Mr. Brummel ? "

Every one else having succumbed to Morpheus save
the two favourites, who loathed each other, they
glared for a minute or two across the table with the
antipathy of canine rivals. The beau's mincing
affectations were odious to Sheridan ; so, without more
ado, he staggered to his feet, and, arranging some
cushions by the side of unconscious York, was soon
asleep. The Prince of Wales, his ambrosial curls
pillowed on a dish of apricots, was straying in Elysian
fields with parted lips like an innocent babe; so
Brummel, who never drank too much, rose with a
yawn and stretch, and rang the bell for his sedan.
Intoxicated gentlemen on the floor are like swine ina
stye; so, disliking as he did aught that suggested

rural sights or smells, the beau ensconced himself
luxuriously in the white satin interior of his conveyance,
and was borne by a pair of lusty porters,
still softly smiling, to his bijou residence in Chapel
Street.

Chapter V.

THE Sluices.

'Tis easier to point the way for others than to keep
quite straight one's self. The forebodings of the
imprudent Prince of Wales with regard to the still
less prudent Frederick were realized before twelvemonths
had passed, and democrats were amply
provided with texts for oratorical discourse.

It was more now than the ailment of impecuniosity
that troubled the Commander-in-chief, though his
trouble grew out of the commonplace disease which
afflicted both the scapegraces. He, like the elder,
became harassed by a " dreadful woman," who was
no other than the once worshipped Mary Anne.
Some men are fickle ; some women greedy of guineas.
The reigning sultana occupied a fine mansion in
Gloucester Place, and indulged in the expensive"
amusement of organizing banquets for the demimonde.
The butcher's book and the baker's gaped
appealingly in vain. Love, as sometimes happens,
was chased out of window by the household bills ; for,

as Frederick aiDtly argued, how could be supply her
extravagant wants when quite cleaned out himself?
Influenced by the appeals of brother Florizel, his
Grace of York waxed cold. Her position being untenable,
Mary Anne fled to Blackheath, where, in the
neighbourhood of the other dreadful woman, she
reflected at leisure on the hollowness of this our
planet. Even at Blackheath one cannot exist without
cash ; so in time the luckless lady was ejected by an
adamantine landlord, who, deaf to agonized prayers,
declined to give up her chattels. She wrote to the
martial hero, warning him that among the seized
effects were bundles of letters full of hearts and darts
and other things beside, which for his own future
peace it behoved him to purchase instantly. Horror-stricken,
he flew to Carlton House, craved advice,
poured forth his grief. How should he know, he
whimpered, what folly those notes contained? And
she had sworn, on the honoured ashes of a deceased
relative, that they were all burnt. Oh, naughty,
faithless Mary Anne ! Money, money, money, blackmail,
anguish ! The disconsolate cronies gathered in
sympathetic circle to discuss what was to be done,
and their deliberations always brought them to the
same cul-de-sac — how to raise the wind. It was
obvious that the crafty landlord would scorn promises
and notes of hand ; would insist on cash, and a great
deal of it ; and the cronies knew that cash would be as

easy for them to get as to swallow St. Paul's and the
Abbey. *' What was it you wrote ? Do think,"
reiterated George. ''If 'twas no more than hearts
and darts, let them publish the twaddle and welcome."
Unlucky Fred thought harder than he had ever
thought before, and at last remembered with woe
that, adopting the sobriquet bestowed by amusing
Mary Anne, he had frequently written of his royal
mamma under the style and title of "Old Snuffy."
Now this was particularly awful, because Frederick
was her Majesty's darling, the only one of all the sons
who could ever dip fingers into her purse, even to the
depth of half an inch. She was rolling in constantly
increasing wealth, while the princes were out at
elbows. Never again would she dole out sparse
guineas, if it should chance to come to her knowledge
that she was nicknamed " Old Snuffy." This was bad
enough, but worse remained behind. Between the
Commander-in-chief and one of his brothers there
was no love lost, and it was whispered pretty loudly
in fashionable circles that the dearest ambition of the
latter was to humiliate his Grace of York, and occupy
his martial boots. There are always grovelling worms
ready to pander to the least lovely desires of the
great. One Colonel Wardle appeared upon the scene,
and assumed the virtues of a patriot. He sought out
abandoned Ariadne. On certain conditions her debts
were to be paid, a pension was to be settled, and a

good round sum provided to meet the expenses of an
establishment. The point at which the colonel aimed
was no less than the ruin of the Duke, for Ariadne
was herself to produce letters, and confess, with a
blush, that for years past she had lived by trafficking
in the sale of military commissions. She penned a
dainty note to Fred, stating what he might expect
unless he was the highest bidder for the scraps.
Ariadne could not exist on nothing, and with poignant
sorrow she regretted, etc. "Oh, ruthless, faithless
Mary Anne ! " sighed her quondam swain. But what
use was there in sighing while she screamed out for
gold?

She was interviewed by Sheridan, whose persuasive
accomplishments we have admired ; abused by Lord
Osmington ; implored by Alvanley : but to no purpose.
They might storm, cajole, bully; she snapped her
pink fingers in their face. It resolved itself with
monotonous persistency into that weary, dreary
problem of how to raise the wind ; and the wind,
as usual, declined altogether to be raised.

In due course, hush-money not being procurable
altogether to gag the mouth of Ariadne, a committee
of inquiry sat upon the Commander-in-chief. The
new basket of foul linen was carried into the House
of Commons with a flourish of trumpets, and Mary
Anne appeared daily there in a bewitching bonnet in
the character of first washerwoman. The mischievous

portion of the public, sated with aldrich shrieks from
Caroline, were charmed with the fresh and piquant
picture of royal manners, while the lower and less
humorous class growled, and democrats preached
sermons. Love letters were read, which turned out
mawkish and illiterate effusions ; the ones about Snuffy
were with prodigious efforts suppressed. This was
disappointing ; but Mary Anne made up for it by
startling evidence, and a hint that one letter had
been stolen which directly implicated the Duke as
having permitted her to dabble in commissions. It
leaked out, also, that in two and a half years her
expenditure had reached the extent of seventeen
thousand pounds. From poverty-stricken Fred she
had drawn no more than two thousand a year. From
what mysterious source, then, did she get the remaining
twelve ?

The missing letter ! Who had stolen it, and what
could it contain ? There was an exciting search, like
that of blood-hounds after a slave. A Captain Canton,
who wist not its value, found it on a table, and pocketed
it as an autograph. How odd to leave such a letter
about, unless 'twas done on purpose ! The captain,
who perceived that he was about to be made a
cat's-paw for the injuring of his Commander-in-chief,
completely lost his head — stammered, lied in the
witness-box, and made so sorry a figure that he was
actually ordered to Newgate. He prevaricated — perjured

himself. The letter was burnt. No, it wasn't ;
for he never set eyes on such a thing in all his life.
Presently, in fumbling for a kerchief to mop his
perspiring brow, he di'ew out something which fell
upon the floor. Sensation ! Why did he bring it in
his pocket ? Was he also a traitor ? Sidon examination,
the letter was proved a forgery ; for Mary Anne
could write Fred's blundering hand as well as he
could himself. When he swore that it was never
penned by him, and pointed out slight telegraphic
discrepancies, she answered, with a sneer, that he
wrote two hands — one before, one after dinner. The
string of witnesses contradicted themselves and each
other in so startling a way that Parliament stood
aghast. What disclosures, too, as to Fred's associates !
What nuts for the sans-culottcs was the account of
his evenings spent in guzzling with artisans ! A
tinman, a shoemaker, a quack pill-vendor had
frequently, despite the warnings and protestation of
gentleman George, found their legs under his hospitable
mahogany. The syren who invited these guests
was clearly shown to belong to the lowest type of
intrigante, who would sell her grandmother for profit.
In reply to Florizel's snorts of vexed amazement,
Sherry gave vent to the boisterous laugh, which,
despite his protest that he was jolly, grew daily more
forced and harsh, and vowed that 'twould soon blow
over. "His Pioyal Highness," he said, *has been

studying character. When I was working for the stage,
you've no idea of the queer company I kept." ** You
and York are different people," rebuked the haughty
Heir-apparent; to which the other retorted, with a
how and a wink, " Indeed? It seems to me that weare
precisely the same sort of people." Ugly details
certainly came out. Officers admitted, with reluctance,
that they had indeed advanced large sums to Mary
Anne in exchange for promises of promotion ; and it
did appear that the jovial gentleman was induced todo
things when drunk which he totally forgot when
sober. This was a time when the public were straining
after reform in all directions ; but Fred was too
sensually indolent to trouble his mind with irksome
administrative changes, and so became the scapegoat
of corrupt practices, which usage had been accustomed
to condone.

There is no doubt that in this dirty business a
shrewd and vindictive adventuress was pitted by
unseen hands against an ingenuous and confiding
sybarite. For the defence, it was urged that York was
beloved by the soldiery ; that the words of Mary Anne
must be taken cu7n grand, not from her demeanour
and frailty only, but by reason of her account of her
life. On the other side, Wardle and Sir Francis
Burnett indulged in flamboyant perorations ; and the
conclusion arrived at was, that his Grace meant well,
but was not happy in the manner of his proceedings.

He was acquitted by a low majority, and in pique
threw up his command. A local tenens, however,
was placed in his jack-boots till such time as the
scandal should be forgotten.

The effect of these disclosures, coming on top of a
series of unfortunate stories, of which the worst was
always made, could not be other than deplorable.
Attentive and credulous ears were turned to the complaining
fi'om Blackheath, for the people were in a
humour to believe anything. The country was overtaxed.
Year by year, on account of a continuance of
war, burthens became heavier. Harvests were bad,
and the farmers much distressed. The popularity of
those who, in the midst of growing difficulties, could
revel in chambering and wantonness, and live to outward
appearance in excessive luxury, was gravely
compromised ; and the princes failed to see that what
the two first kings of the Brunswick line could do
with impunity in them was heinous crime. Meanwhile,
their misery was intense enough to condone
many peccadilloes, suffering as they were from their
chronic complaint — how to raise the wind. Oh dear,
that annoying question ! 'Twas well that Old Snuffy's
sobriquet had been kept from her ears. The council
of cronies decided nem. con. that Fred the delinquent,
whose folly had most shaken royal credit, must throw
himself into the breach, and do the amiable to the
wrinkled miser, of whom he was the darling idol.

The scapegraces wanted pocket-money; they wanted
also to buy up some still fluttering fragments of foul
linen, which yet remained in the basket. Mary Anne
was capable of brewing fresh storms. '* An angry
woman, right or wrong," murmured Sherry, *was
never known to hold her tongue ; " while Vere made
unfeeling and jocose comparisons between the relative
obnoxiousness of a royal wife and royal mistress.
"Which was the most untimely story, people were
asking themselves — that of the man who deserted his
poor, dear, immaculate angel spouse ; or that of the
other, who allowed a woman of no repute to don the
breeches of Commander-in-chief? The mania for
fouling nests became quite modish, and royalty and
aristocracy were equally offensive in the eyes of an
outraged nation. Snuffy must be beguiled into disgorging,
for it was too bad that she should be
squatting in the counting-house counting out her
money, while the prodigals were shivering in rags.
Her Majesty was an excellent woman of business,
clever at a bargain (too clever, some said) ; a long-headed,
successful speculator, who had no call to
squander her beloved hoards for the behoof of boys
of forty-five. The attempt had to be made nevertheless
; so Frederick started on a forlorn hope to see
what could be won at Windsor. The fond mamma
was charmed by unusual attentions. She killed a
fatted calf, and invited the dear youth to be her

partner at whist. Now, Fred hated whist almost
as much as he loathed the society of drivelling or
cunning old women — the crowd of Court harridans,
vinegar visaged virgins, wheezy ladies-inviting ; but
having leapt into the breach, there was no retreat.
Snuffy was grinning and smirking with all her yellow
teeth, so he submitted to be bored to death with the
best grace he knew how to assume. It was of all
things most important that she should be kept in
good humour; so for hours he sat patiently at the
card-table, wondering how much she would bestow,
counting imaginary treasure-bags, and sadly neglecting
the game. Once or twice he was roused by a
an-tap, sharply warned not to throw away his honours
a stray arrow, which quivered in his heart — and
becoming more and more absent, made such blunders
that her Majesty forfeited her stakes. With that she
lost her temper, which was never of the sweetest, and
flung from the table, with words of shrill reproach.
What did he mean by making her lose five shillings ?
He hastened to apologize ; she retorted with ungenerous
innuendoes anent stupid beggars, and was
only pacified at last by his paying out of his own lean
remnant the trifle she had lost. This was scarcely
the moment to talk about a loan ; so, finding his hard
mother and her coterie unbearable, he ruefully returned
to London, not only innocent of money-bags,
but absolutely out of pocket. The disappointed

VOL. I. 7

conclave could only laugh, for the situation was immensely
absurd ; but duns hovered around in coveys,
and life was a mocking purgatory.

Again my lord Osmington offered temporary help,
and Fred would have gladly accepted but for the
glowering of George. The Heir Apparent was proud
and obdurate. Vere must never mention the subject
again. Poor he might be ; would pawn his watch
and finger-rings if necessary ; but a Prince of Wales
could never borrow from his friends.

'well, then," Lord Osmington said, "there's no
use grumbling at home. Sheridan exhorts us to
jollity. Sure your Royal Highness will not disdain
to accept of entertainment from a crony? May I
give an evening out and pay expenses ? Organize
something racy, calculated to drown care — something
to recall happy boyhood, with its frolics and lightness
of heart ? "

There was no objection to that, though Brummel
arched contemptuous eyebrows, for he gauged Vere's
notions as to raciness. Sheridan was loud in his
applause ; but it was plain his gaiety was feigned, and
that, laugh as he might, he stood more in need of
cheering than any of the glum party. In truth, the
year had brought its full cargo of misfortune to the
doomed genius, who kept the fox that gnawed concealed
within his vest, instead of complaining of the
bites. His theatre was both bane and antidote to

him — bis only source of income, wliicli income, as we
have said, was inconveniently fluctuating by reason of
his careless ways. But bis misfortunes in this direction
were not entirely bis fault. Their foundation
was laid as early at 1789, when, Drury Lane being
declared unsafe, the temple of the Muses was ordered
to be rebuilt. To accomplish this, a hundred and
fifty thousand pounds had to be raised by debentures
bearing interest for a century at five per cent. The
amount was speedily subscribed, but from one cause
and another the new theatre remained out of operation
till the season of '91. During this period of difficulty
any man but Sheridan would have retrenched ; but
it was out of his slipshod Irish character so to do.
His style of living was expensive, his mind absorbed
by politics, and M.p's are paid no wages. He was
conducting his affairs in the usual happy-go-lucky
style, when a sudden stumbling-block arose which
forced itself on his attention. The progress of the
new building, that was to replenish the treasury withall
possible speed, was checked by the discovery of
a dormant patent to Killigrew from Charles H. The
shareholders became alarmed, for their subscriptions
were applicable to rebuilding only, and could not be
used for other purposes. Employing his unrivalled
persuasive powers, the manager evolved from somewhere
an additional nine thousand pounds, wherewith
the patent was annulled. Soon after, it became

further necessary to create forty-seven rent-charges
at three thousand pounds apiece. Heavily handicapped,
loaded with enormous expenses, the new
house was opened at last ; hut a curse seemed to
hang over its fortunes. The opening night past, the
care of the manager was fitful as usual, and the
patronage of the public unsteady. Attention and
hard continuous work might have steered the bark
to ultimate success, but who from Sheridan could
expect either ? He met remonstrance with a flippant
jest. The life of a manager, he vowed, was like that
of the ordinary at Newgate — a constant superintendence
of executions. Was it his fault if audiences
hissed the works of authors ? He obeyed the will of
the public, and extinguished them, performing a perpetual
literary massacre. " Play writing," he said,
accounts for the employment of that immense crowd
of wayworn persons who drain obscure years behind
an inkstand, and haunt the street with gaunt, iron-moulded
visages. It accounts for the rise in price of
paper, which has exhausted the rags of England and
Scotland, and even stripped off the last decent covering
of Ireland ! "

But joking fills no stomachs. His own original
muse was inexorably dumb. To stave off collapse,,
he did indeed adapt "Pizarro" and "The Stranger"
from the German with a measure of plaudits; but,
accustomed as they were to see the Kemble in a series

•of "windy atrocities, the public got confused between
the plays and their exponents, and dared to profess
weariness for the strongly accentuated mannerisms
of John and the bombastic queenliness of Siddons.
'give us something new and natural," they cried;
and straightway patronized the vagaries of trained
animals and the well-meaning attempts of an infant
phenomenon. Inexperienced Master Betty, aged
twelve, was voted superior in tragic talent to awful
Sarah, of whom Sherry said, trembling, that he would
as soon think of whispering soft nothings to the Archbishop
of Canterbury; while a judged-up medley,
called '' The Caravan," was declared to throw Shakespeare
in the shade. On the night of its production,
Brinsley, who for once had come down to look after
his affairs, rushed into the green-room. " Where," he
shouted, " is my guardian angel ? " ''Mr. Reynolds,"
some one said, *ris gone." "Pooh!" he replied,
who cares for authors ? Let me embrace the Newfoundland
dog, whose genius has taken the town ! "
This fancy soon passed, and things looked very bad.
The Kemble, Miss Barren, Jordan, Suet Bannister,
were screaming for salaries, and declined to act. How
was the theatre to be kept open, and, if it closed, how
were any of them to live ? Incorrigible Sherry chose
this inauspicious moment to marry a second wife, and
it became necessary, to obtain a stern parent's consent,
to raise fifteen thousand pounds by mortgage.

In spite of an accumulating mountain of debt at
compound interest, the managerial menage was as
profuse as ever, and, public support growing feebler
and more feeble. Sherry was involved in constant
quarrels with the renters. This was a trifle, breezy
and invigorating to a combative Hibernian nature ; but
as the years followed on each other's heels, prospects
grew worse instead of better. When we first looked
on Sheridan at Battle Magna, he seemed at as low
an ebb as possible ; but even worse remained behind,,
and his affected jollity was put to the severest test.

On the 24th of February, 1809, a blow fell from
which he might never recover, although he strove
manfully to hide the deepness of the wound. He was-delighting
the House of Commons with his marvellous
oratory, conjuring troops of paradoxes for the fun of
knocking them over, astonishing his auditors by the
terrible grandeur of his imagery, when a lurid glare
illumined the sky, and a messenger arrived in hottest
haste to say that Drury Lane was burning. A
murmur of sympathy for the illustrious sufferer pervaded
the assembly. Drunken and dissolute he might
be, but his genius enforced respect. An adjournment
was proposed, but he replied in a low voice — the
calmest member in the House — that private calamity
must never interfere with public business, and continued
his speech to the end. *' Let the matter rest'*
lie said, with a strange smile. *' My independence

has sometimes been questioned. 'Tis established
now, since I've nothing left to depend upon ! " "When
he reached the scene, the performers stood looking
on in shuddering groups, and it was plain that hope
was dead. Every aperture vomited flames. The
cracking walls streamed with lead from the molten
roof and gutters. An actress dwelling hard by in
Russell Street, ordered a barrel of ale to be broached,
and, appearing at a window in a blue satin ball-dress,
exhorted the crowd to work. *' Search," she shouted,
'lest some may yet live within yon furnace! Two
guineas and a kiss for every person saved ! " But it
was too late. Flame licked the feet of the colossal
Apollo that crowned the edifice. Forked tongues
caressed his limbs. He tottered, swayed, fell with a
great crash, like the noise of a park of artillery ; and
the spectators yelled, as the huge roof fell in with a
tremendous shock, " He's gone ! " " He's gone ! "
Sheridan echoed, as he turned away. " His requiem
and mine. My fortunes are gone with him." Vere
and Alvanley sought among the crowd, fearing lest
their friend should do himself an injury, and found
him quietly seated behind a decanter of brandy in
the Piazza Coffee House. *' My poor, poor fellow ! "
Alvanley stammered, in genuine sorrow. 'don't
mind me," Sheridan replied. " Surely a man may
enjoy his liquor undisturbed hy his oivn fireside''
'Twas easily seen that his calm was born of bravado.

to avoid pity. He never rallied. His talk was lively
as of yore, but tinged henceforth with acid. The
warm heart that fed those genial eyes with sympathy
was never hardened, but he threw up the game. He
who was the acme of kindliness became nervous and
irritable, delighting in the performance of ignoble
pranks, as if glorying with the divine bitterness of
Lucifer in plunging to the depths of the abyss of
shame.

The loss by the conflagration was estimated at three
hundred thousand pounds, of which — how like Sherry !
only thirty were insured, and that sum was
promptly attached by his Grace of Bedford, the ground
landlord. A clock of Garrick's perished, an organ
of Handel's, and many other relics ; and while
cultured circles were deploring these mementoes, more
evil news arrived in a report that Sheridan was dead.
Dead ! Was it directly of grief, or a soul-stricken
suicide? As it turned out, 'twas but a ruse — first
abject trick of the completely fallen angel — to teach
whom it concerned to estimate his worth. Such
pompous eulogium, sonorous expressions of regret,
poured forth from newspapers and magazines — faults
were so blurred by the glamour of the grave — that
duns could not but be mollified, delighted to be civil
to their resuscitated victim when the corpse revived.
They gave him time, and he kept his lips above the
flood. He laughed while Despair weighed like a stone

within. For all this external butterfly lightness he
could feel, and was not one to drain an inevitable cup
and find Oblivion at the bottom. Though all was
over, he was condemned — for who might tell how
long? — to linger here below, with hollow-eyed Care
peering through a comic mask. The ruined manager
stood in need of cheering even more than the impel
scapegraces, and it was generous of my lord
Osmington to give them an evening out.

Whither should he conduct his party? Should
they, reviving youthful days of Blackstone, Greystock,
and Slimstock, sally forth with hats poised on brow,
chins swathed in bird's-eye fogies, and visit Tot-hill
Fields ? Prime shops for fun were there in
plenty. At the dog-fancier's theatre, how diversified
a crew of fluefakers, duster, bakers, lamplighters,
hackney coachmen, to say nothing of a liberal sprinkling
of sweeps, lords, grooms, honourables, and donkey-boys
! Or should they invade the premises of Sure
of St. Giles's, who, with her partner, bogle-eyed
Mummy, keeps the celebrated emporium for oysters ?
No. Although mere lads on the high-road to fifty,
their Highnesses were too staid for such frolics.
Besides, was not the Heir-apparent undergoing one
of his fits of plain living, on which occasions, flying
from the allurements of Weltje, he was wont to
swallow simple liver and bacon and black cherry
brandy as a tonic for an enfeebled digestion, undermined

by a surfeit of Curacoa? A stroll in Tothill
Fields implied liberal libations of blue ruin. No.
They would take a bowl or two of punch at Mother
Butler's, who still kept the Salutation Tavern, where,
twenty years before, when the prodigals were really
juvenile. Prince Hal took the chair nightly in the
company of Nym and Pistol. A buxom Dame Quickly
was Mrs. Butler, and her hostelry a genial haunt,
where dignity could make place for deshabille. Dear
heart, what fun there used to be in those old days,
when Florizel, the handsome Al-Kaschid, explored
the hotbeds of lurking vice and crime with Fox and
Sheridan and Surrey ! Heu, fugaces ! Florizel's
digestion was a battered hulk ; his chin showed signs
of doubling, his once slim figure was of ominous
rotundity. He didn't feel up to a chaffing match with
Suke; but there was nothing against a visit to Madam
Butler. It would be killing two birds with a stone,
for Thomas Cribbb, Champion of England, resided at
Madame Butler's in the capacity of amateur Boniface,
and all the party found equal pleasure in the society
of Thomas Cribbb. Brummel, of course, cried off, and
took refuge in the boudoir of his most devoted duchess
a move which was not displeasing to Sherry, and
charmed Lord Osmington, who wished to go in for a
high-pressure orgy, as in the golden past. Thomas
should be bidden to summon from their beds a few
of his allies for an impromptu bout with the gloves

trot out the most promising of his pupils for the
judgment of the royal connoisseurs. As they walked
from Carlton House towards Covent Garden, Yere
explained that there was one pupil studying with
Thomas now in whom both were extremely interested ;
Vere because the boy was one of his own tenantry in
Yorkshire, Cribbb because in all his days he had never
had so promising a neophyte. This lad, with a
blooming vista of fistic victories ahead, was Mr. Cyrus
Smalley, cousin of Abigel Eowe.

The past twelve months, which had brought wreck
and ruin to others, were more kind to Mr. Smalley.
His most doleful anticipations became harrowing
facts, and he was like to cut his throat. A few wrecks
after the departure of the party from Battle Magna,
grandam Pentecost so far bestirred herself as to call
for Abigel and bestow an improving lecture. My
lord in his overweening affability, she explained,
condescended to take paternal interest in the lowly
maid ; was resolved, in generous goodness to a
faithful old servant and foster-mother, to give her
niece a help upwards in the social scale ; if she
turned out well, to make a lady of her. To that
end she was to depart for the metropolis forthwith,
to undergo a modish curriculum. *' The ball is
at your feet, you hussy," concluded the old woman,
with, a final slap, *'so don't toss away your chances.
To our sex my lord is always liberal, and he owes me

much, more than he can ever pay. If you deal your
cards adroitly, he'll settle you in life — do for you what
I might have claimed myself once on a time ; alack-day,
no matter about that. Don't be giddy and
heedless, as I was ; and don't get into a scrape and
come puling back to me. Who knows but what he
may marry you — stranger things have chanced — and
that one of my blood may be a countess after all ? "

Hints of mundane advantage were wasted on the
romantic maiden. She laughed at grandcourt's vain
and ambitious fancy. My lord might be a father,
perhaps, if he so willed it; but a lover — never ! What
an idea! Miss Abby gave vent to a cachinnation,
like a peal of silver bells, at Pentecost's expense, and
showed two perfect rows of glittering pearls. Love !
She was too young to be pierced yet by Cupid's shaft.
Get into scrapes ? For what sort of a silly zany did
grand aunt take her ? Temptations might be dazzling
and she simple, but she knew right from wrong, and
could protect herself. London — magic word which
in its two syllables contains so much ! Dear Leo was
gone thither to be a gentleman. Now it was her
turn, and she was going to be a lady. Oh, rapture !

Clothed in innocence, the maid skipped on the coach
beaming with expectant glee, oblivious of cousin Cy
as black as thunder in the road, dreaming of the
enchantments which awaited her, steeped in the
sunny rays of childlike selfishness. Hobbledehoy

Cestus saw her depart without pity for his pangs, and
told himself that he was well rid of such a jade ;
regretted that he had ever stood 'twixt her and
grandam's manual correction ; wished that she and
he were lying tied together until judgment-day at the
bottom of the ocean. She was gone and would never
return, would look down on him as scum henceforth,
and he endeavoured to persuade himself that he was
glad of it. That was sensible ; but somehow his even
temper became short, and for some months he was
gloomy and morose, and went up and down upon the
earth seeking whom he might devour.

Now, Yorkshire was always celebrated for its boxing
matches. It was incumbent on every lad of spirit
to be nimble with his fists. Near Battle Magna
was a farmer with five sons, who on their return
from market always settled their differences, as the
custom was, by force of muscular skill. When
about to retire from active labour, the farmer
summoned his family and said, unlike La Fontaine's
peasant, " Ben, the youngest, can lather all his
brothers, so let him manage the farm ; " to which
decision all bowed without a murmur, deeming it
quite faii\ Cy, as a brat, had always held his own,
and now, aggrieved and solitary, he picked fierce
quarrels with his peers, and pummelled them all, and
was elated by his growing strength. A fig for tawny
pasty-faced Leo and disdainful Abby. They couldn't

hit like him, for all their daintiness and gentility. In
the use of his fist, at least, he was their superior ; so
there was no call to turn up their noses. Waxing
bolder through impunity, he attacked one day a
gigantic coal-heaver and floored him ; and later on
achieved a single-handed victory over two dragoons;
but, in sooth, they were the worse for drink, and unsteady
on their pins.

In spite of the delights of London and the exactions
of finishing professors, Abigel, who was a good girl,
and nourished a sneaking fondness for her big cousin,
found leisure sometimes to write, and amused herself
and my lord at breakfast by reading his clumsy
answers. The wayward and imperious maiden soon
made herself at home in the rambling corridors and
saloons of Osmington House by sheer healthy vigour
of character. It was to her the domestics looked for
orders. The infuriated members of the Noah's Ark
were confined to a single wing, and only let out to
roam during the period of the matutinal levee, like
birds out of a gilded cage. At this time she was
always busy with her masters, but invariably made
her appearance at the ringing of a particular bell, to
superintend her benefactor's meal and read the morning
news. " 'Fore Gad," he reported to the cronies,
^ ' the little thing is bottled sunshine ! I can't think what
I ever did without her. Not but what she has her
own way completely. Pepita and the other dears are

troublesome enough, violent and captious and roughs
and 'tis as a rule best to humour them ; but
if I choose I can storm back and reduce their noise to
silence. In the treatment of the sex I've always found
the Balmy-Brutal style effective. A dose of argument
and then of diabolical vituperation tames the darlings,
just as a judicious use of sugar and the whip brings
circus-horses to their knees. But do you think I dare
try it upon Abigel? Merciful Heaven, no ! She keeps
us in fine order, but we don't revolt. Hers is a mild
sway. She is reasonable to a fault, never wants
presents, and I was never so comfortable in my life."
Alvanley often dropped in, for he also fell under the
fascination of her whom he dubbed Euphrosyne ; even
the censor himself, sometimes. They rode together
in the park, organized excursions in the suburbs,
drove on my lord's coach to Kew or Richmond, were
perfectly merry and free. The one cause she had for
regret was, that in rides and drives Blackheath was
always tabooed, lest haply they might come upon the
Dreadful Woman — an accident Abby would have liked ;
for was not Leo her page ? Abby for the present saw
little of Leo, chosen child-playmate, but she was
young, and so was he ; and looking forward to possible
opportunities of renewing acquaintance later on, she
was content to take things as she found them and
enjoy her present splendour. By desire of my lord
she opened a regular correspondence with Cy, for the

accounts of that hero's prowess tickled my lord's jaded
appetite. " Dash, dash ! " he was wont to repeat, as
with a hand that might have been less shaky he held
his tea-dish to be replenished. *' The spark is mettlesome,
and seems to improve. The Prince of Wales
wins bets over Cribbb's battles ; why should I not have
up the youth and train him properly ? One more or
less in the menagerie makes no difference. Chicken-fights
are poor sport, and among the bumpkins the
boy may learn bad tricks. The Bristol school's the
only school, and Thomas Cribbb's its prophet."

Abigel was scandalized. What ! Bring up her
cousin as a common bruiser, a low pugilist ? Never !
How would she hold up her head as she drove down
St. James's Street, if prints of cousin Cy stripped to
the waist were staring at her from the print shops ?"
On this one point she was not allowed to have her
way. Not that my lord tried the Balmy-Brutal. He
contented himself with an order not to prate of what
she didn't comprehend, or adopt foolish prejudices
"Are we sprung from the loins of William the
Conqueror," he gibed, " that we make believe to be
so particular ? " At the retort she bit her lip and
reddened, and held her tongue. But when Cy arrived,,
she received him with an odd mournfulness, and kissed
him as Jephthah may have kissed his daughter when
arrayed for sacrifice ; and when she contemplated his
fine proportions, she gave a little repugnant shrugs

and left him alone to marvel in his cosy chamber,
beside the dimity bed, which she had herself
arranged-with eloquent touches of welcome. For his
part, he was reduced to prostrate awe and admiration
by the subtle changes that a few well-filled months
had made in the country lass. Mr. Sheridan showed
true instinct when he said that in Miss Eowe there
was the making of a Lady Teazle. It was possible
that, like Lady Teazle, she might be lured for a space
into frivolity ; but sure her nature was of the sterling
kind which induced the famous heroine, after the
falling of the screen, to toss off superficial foibles like
a worn-out glove. Cy beheld a budding fine lady of
fashion, and became exceedingly shy ; whereupon his
cousin laughed in glee and clapped her hands ; and
then he recognized his old idolized, tantalizing Abby,
who, somehow, became the lady of fashion again when
he babbled of his new profession. Could it be that
she was the least tiny bit ashamed of him? That
were hard, when he laid down his honest heart so
gladly as a door-mat for her dainty feet. He felt sure
that she evaded his attempt to interest her in the
Bristol school, so with reluctance avoided the topic.
But my lord was enthusiastic, and offered every
encouragement.

In due course he was pitted against the Chatham
Caulker, and beat him, and showed such gallantry on
the occasion that a stranger presented the neophyte

VOL. I. 8

with notes for fifty pounds. Indeed, he deserved the
patronage of amateurs and all the careful instruction
of the Champion ; for he learnt to love the ring for the
skill, finesse, and fortitude displayed by the better sort
within the ropes, rather than, as some others did, as a
vehicle for airing ruffianism and the practice of brutish
violence. Of prepossessing appearance, with diffident
and obliging manners, he became milder instead of
more ferocious as he progressed in the knowledge of
his art — a circumstance due to the guidance of Cribbb,
whose proverbial gentleness and polish had endeared
him to gentleman George.

The Champion of all England, at one time a coal-porter,
a thickset and sturdy man of five feet ten, was
in private life as placid as a lamb, as fastidious in his
way as Brummel. Once he was heard severely rating
his laundress for having dared to place his shirts in
lavender. Many are the tales told of his forbearance
from the use of his fists in civil life. Several times
he was compelled to hale fellows before the magistrates
who abused him in hopes of getting up a quarrel.
He never could be got to fight save in the way of
business, with regular forms and ceremonies. Cribbb
took a fancy to my lord's protege at once, and the
latter spent much time with him at the fives-courts,
or practising with another pupil called Kendal on
Horton Fields, finding always a welcome at Lord
Osmington's whenever his tutor spared him.

Abigel could not get used to this state of things,
and resolved to break another lance on the subject
with her benefactor. Had he a reason, she inquired,
for making such a social gap between the cousins?
What was the use of matriculating for a lady, learning
cymbals and tambourine like fashionable damsels,
practising elaborate entrechats and shawl-dances,
painting daisies and macaws on velvet, if her own first
cousin was to be the associate of ruffians, and yet dwell
in the self-same Noah's Ark ? As soon as the accomplishments
of the ton were perfected, she was to be
launched into high society. Was it pleasant, did he
think, to have the cousin whom she liked so lowered ?
"Pugilists are worthy fellows," my lord retorted,
"petted by Corinthians, patronized by royalty."
That might be as regarded a few, but in the main
were they not a bad set, and was not the business of
their lives to batter noses of adversaries into pulp ? "
If you intend to marry him," my lord sneered, " say
so at once, and save me expense on your behalf."
No. She certainly had no intention of marrying
cousin Cy or anybody else, for that matter, and it was
indelicate to suspect her motives. " Go away and
don't bother," was the end of the argument. And
Abby could not help wondering vaguely if grandcourt's
suspicions were justified, and that my lord meant
some day to propose himself. And then she chid
herself with vehement wrath. Of course he did not,

and if he did she would refuse him point blank.
My lord was not a carrying man. In this much
he was right; there was no use in bothering. The
future would unfold itself quite soon enough. Meanwhile
he must arrange things as he fancied, and she
would henceforth be indifferent and quiescent. Was
he not master for the present of both the cousins'
destiny? Protest was vain, save in small things.
She would so far give way to withdraw open
opposition to Cy's choice of a career ; would let him
drone about his lofty aims, since it was pleasing
to him. But when, one morning, thus encouraged,
he entered her drawing-room, awkward and sheepish,
though dressed as smart as a new-scraped carrot,
and explained that he intended to assume a nom
de guerre, and had chosen her favourite flower asa
, cognomen, she felt inclined to box his ears. *' On
the sward," he said proudly, **I shall be known as
Sprig of Myrtle.' " The idea of striving to associate
her in his triumphs ! Well, well, what was to be
gained by showing anger? The dear fellow was
modest and upright, and neither drank nor swore.
It was well to be thankful for that. So far as cousin
Cy was concerned, there was nothing for it but to let
things slide, and pray for a rosy morrow.

That's your sort, my forty copies ! " exclaimed
Lord Osmington, who could adapt his talk to the
shrine of pugilism. "Welcome to the Sluice.

Mother B., give us a buzz. How's yourself, Thomas 7
See to the peck and booze for then* Royal Highnesses —
burnt wine, ham shavings, and steaming arrack punch.
Look alive, and see that it's slap-up ! Bones and
anchovies to follow, of course, with the second bowl."

The Sluiceryry was the name of a small sanctum
behind the bar, with a sanded floor, plain benches
along the panelled walls, and running in front of each
a heavy table, polished like a mirror. The apartment
was dimly lighted with dip candles, but the central
fireplace sent forth a glow which illumined the
numerous pictures, and glittered on a silver vase over
the mantelpiece. The vase bore this inscription,
To Thomas Cribbb, from the Sporting World, as a
tribute to his valour and integrity ; " while the pictures
represented celebrated bruisers in paralytic poses
from the days of Pigg and Boughton, portraits of
the most noble amateurs, delineations of the most
celebrated encounters. It was a cosy nook, although
the seats were hard ; and its occupants rose in a body,
and pulled their forelocks on the advent of the royal
brothers. The princes had chosen their night well, for
the flower of the flock were here, smoking long clays
and discussing affairs with the gravity of a Vehmgericht.
In the first place, there was old Joe Ward, the Nestor
of the ring, who up to seventy never missed a fight ;
and peach-checked Scandal ; and Cy, his fellow-pupil ;
and one-eyed Beecher, the ex-Champion. These were

habitues ; but on this occasion two of the opposition
had looked in — the great Mendoza, head and front of
the Hebrew school, and Caleb Kann, his favourite
disciple.

With the latter we shall have a good deal todo,
so let us take a look at him. Tall and dark,
with bushy eyebrows and blue-shaven chin, he seemed
a determined young person. The exact opposite to
Cy in character and tastes, he was a good example of
the lawless bruiser whose mal practices brought his
calling into disrepute. Indeed, he disliked Mr.
Smalley with all his soul; for he took his modest
ways for cowardice, and got the notion into his stupid
head, where it remained, that Cy was at heart a cur.
Such being his conviction, was it not provoking to
have the youth cast for ever in his teeth as a pattern,
whose manners he should imitate ? His own master
Mendoza's manners were no great shakes, and yet
he obtained support. Why, then, should he, Caleb
Ann, fetter himself with social punctilio, which was
as irksome as a strait-waistcoat ? He could not deny
that Cyrus showed professional promise ; but he must
be lily-livered underneath the crust, or why should he
refuse to join in orgies, decline to run amuck in public
thoroughfares, beat watchmen, pull bell-handles, like
their betters ? He took no pleasure in a spree, orin
going out for a week on the drink. Was he not,
therefore, utterly contemptible, a mean humbug, to

be well thrashed some day, despite the scientific
tricks instilled by Mr. Cribbb? 'Twas exasperating
beyond measure that Cyrus should be patronized by
so great a man as the president of the Pugilistic
Club, while he, Caleb, was taken up by nobody.
What if he should succeed in pummelling Cyrus ?
Might not such a triumph lead to the ousting of the
Sprig of Myrtle and the promotion of the victor to his
place in the Osmington Noah's Ark ? It was worth
trying for, though fortune had hitherto been cruel to
Mr. Caleb Ann. Barely five and twenty, he had
tried many trades, and failed in all. As a boy, he
practised an athletic occupation in the open air,
being chiefly employed in escorting barges from
Wigan to Liverpool and back. At eighteen, he entered
the service of a vintner at York, and was speedily
dismissed for drunkenness. Thence he migrated to
London, and, failing as a street acrobat, gained a
scanty wage by posing as an Academy model, residing
meanwhile at Bow. It was no easy matter to wring
profit out of his peculiar gifts, which consisted in an
immeasurable command of slang, muscles of iron, and
a skull of abnormal thickness, and he ultimately came
to the conclusion that his best chance was in the ring.
But even there he was unlucky. His gammon and
obscene language displeased the amateurs ; for, having
floored his man, he would squat by his side, and,
mimicking his pains, cry, " Oh, my eye ! didn't you

catch it then ? " — an unprofessional proceeding in the
worst taste. On the occasion of his first public exhibition,
hostile murmurs were heard ; whereupon, out
of bravado, he made a purr, running his head into his
rival's bread-basket, and shutting him up like a book.
Manners are manners : 'twas as bad as shooting a fox.
An outraged shriek of execration rose into the air,
the ropes were torn down, a free fight ensued. Semi-delirious
seconds spat in each other's faces ; women
screamed and tugged each other's locks. The place
resembled a battle-field. The offending Caleb would
have fared idly in the scrimmage, had not a powerful
man pulled him into a gig and driven off at a gallop.
The unknown rescuer turned out to be Mendoza, who
took him home, and strove to polish the rough
diamond — a task that would have puzzled Hercules ;
for Caleb was as unable to assume the courtesies of
civilized life as he was to steer clear of lushing-kens,
or avoid the seductions of the gaming-table. He was
addicted to gin, was unruly in the matter of training,
squandered money when he had it ; when he hadn't,
pawned his clothes, and got drunk in bed. On the
evening of a successful battle, which had won him a
hundred guineas, he spent the entire sum in a single
cruise from Westminster to Bow. And yet this
singular creature had a twilight perception of honour ;
and Mendoza, driven to his wit's end to keep him
straight, was obliged to practise upon it. Accompanied

by confederates, he took Ann to Hampstead on the
loose, indulged him in every folly, supplied copious
flashes of max, challenged him when sufficiently
primed to a game of " shaking in the hat." Caleb
fell into the snare ; lost first his money, then his
clothes, and, spurred by taunts, was induced to stake
his life. Mendoza won, and calmly ordered his prize
to hang himself at the first lamp on their reaching
the road across the fields. Ann, though a bully, was
no coward ; the attribute of the God he worshipped
was unflinching personal bravery. He took off his
neckerchief, and prepared to obey; but Mendoza, in
the presence of witnesses, pretended to change his
mind, declaring that a corpse was useless, except to
sell to the surgeons, while a living slave was an article
of value. He explained, therefore, to attentive Caleb
that he was no longer master of himself, but bound,
when called upon, to show unreasoning obedience.
It was not likely that so ill-regulated a sinner would
be reduced by slavery to complete meekness, but the
ruse served its turn ; for, in moments of emergency,
Mendoza had only to recall the debt of honour for his
wishes to be punctually obeyed. Types of human
character repeat themselves. The ancient barbarians
of the North, who pillaged venerable Some, showed
the same romantic fidelity to their rude idea of
principle. The Goth, we are told, suffered himself
to be bound, chastised, sold into remote slavery

ABIGEL ROWE.

by a weaker victor, who had won him on a dice-throw.
With care and patience, Caleb became a
fair specimen of the Hebrew style of pugilism — more
ferocious than scientific — dealing his blows from the
elbow, trusting to unusual suppleness from the waist
upward and nimbleness of foot. But he seldom made
and never could keep a friend, being sly and foulmouthed,
and truculent in his cups. Once it even
became needful to hale him before the Bond Street
council, he having boasted that a large sum had been
promised by a certain noble lord if he would allow
himself to be beaten. He had a way, too, of pretending
illness, leaning a heavy head upon a second's
shoulder to influence the betting. These misdemeanours
affected his credit sadly. All the sympathy
was with Cooper, when he was unlucky enough to be
slain by Ann, though the milling of the latter was so
brilliant as to force unwilling plaudits even from those
whom he had cheated. He bewildered the foe with
lightning feints ; and ere the contest had lasted fifty
seconds, planted his right close to Cooper's ear, and
pressed the carotid so severely that it ceased to
supply the heart. For this mishap he was tried at
the Old Bailey ; but so fond were Englishmen of the
ring as an institution, that he got off with a month's
imprisonment, and for that time, at least, escaped the
proverbial sheriff's breakfast — a hearty choke and a
caper. The young man was unpopular with amateurs.

but the Hebrew clique declared it was wrong of noble
patrons to throw cold water on his skill. In Caleb
was the stuff which goes to the making of heroes, and
it was ridiculous to assert that the fact of his being
drunken and unpolished made a difference in his
standing as a boxer. Mendoza was anxious that his
disciple should have a fair chance, so he brought
him down to the Sluiceryry, and proposed that a match
should be arranged between him and a pupil of the
Champion's.

Cribbb disapproved of the candidate, and so did
Beecher. When the royal brothers entered, Cribbb was
delivering an oration, with many hums and haws and
pipe-waves, wherein he upbraided Mendoza for his
partisanship. " It is such men as this," he said, with
withering scorn, " who cast a shadow on the noble art
and cause a certain set of magistrates to talk of
putting it down. Look at my dear pal Jem," he pursued,
elegantly waving his calumet in the direction of
Beecher, who blushed like a girl. . "He ought to have
a statty ; for he's a type of types, though he has a
game optic. Bashful, conciliatory, generous, he never
made an enemy by importance. His soul's as clean
as that silver vase and as bright ; and it was the
proudest moment of my life when I won the belt from
him, and he gave me his hand in friendship. I
humbly strive to copy his virtues, and point him out
to all my pupils as the best of men, the best of

scientific pugilists, the best of good fellows ; and I'm
glad to know that others take pattern by Jem, and
follow his splendid example." Here he nodded at Cy
Smalley, who sat by the fire, and who laughed outright
to see the enraged grimace of Caleb, who was
glaring with fierce eyes.

What is it all about ?" inquired the Heir Apparent,
so soon as, greetings over, the company were settled
in their seats. " Was the Champion delivering a
sermon ? "

"A bit of a plan, sir," explained Mendoza, " that'll
benefit this chap of mine without hurting Cribbb. You
see, the Pink of Bow (that's Caleb's fighting name) is
under a cloud, and like to be squashed by it, which is
unjust. The swells don't hold with him ; but he'll dome
credit yet. I would not be so rude as to say a
word contrariwise to the Bristollites " (this with a
bow to Cribbb and Beecher) ; " but I'll back my lot
against theirs any day for a quart of daffy, though
their bantam has taken the taste of the amateurs.
If your Koyal Highness would give your countenance,
'twould be a real kindness; for Cribbb' s set his face
somehow against a meeting 'twixt his Sprig of
Myrtle and my Pink of Bow, and I do want to bring
it on."

The Pink's stronger, older, and more experienced'*
objected Cribbb.

"Agile as a monkey," added Beecher.

'pooh!" coaxed the Hebrew. "The Sprig don't
want advantages any more nor a dog wants a side
pocket. Come ! Caleb shall wear thick, hobnailed
boots. That's straight, surely ! "

** 'Tis for you to decide, Cribbb," asserted Lord
Osmington, who in his quality of host presided at the
punch-bowl. " Speak up, my king of beef-headed
Britons."

'don't like it. What do you say?" asked the
Champion, doubtfully.

All the same to me," responded Cyrus.

*' Do you really believe in him, Mendoza ? " asked
the Duke of York. " Your faction wants young blood
terribly."

Help me, I do ! " returned the Hebrew. *' He's
the gamest I've come across this many a day."

'then I'm with you," the Duke bawled; "for the
honour of the Jews, though I can't screw a mag out
of any of 'em."

And I with you, Cribbb, of course," said the Prince
of Wales.

"Dash, dash!" shouted Lord Osmington, with a
string of expletives, " I'll see the boy through it, since
he belongs to me. At Moulsey, this day two months."

"Here's an idea," suggested Sheridan, making a
violent effort to be gay. " Try 'em now in a preliminary
canter. A love-fight, or, say, for a gallon
of max ? "

Bravo, Sherry, ray pippin ! " shouted Vere, quite
iu his element now. " Ten pounds against a bender
on the Sprig. Finish the bowl, gents ; no shirking.
Mother B. will brew another while the bantams spar.
Here's a sentiment, * England's rose, and the sun
that shines on it.' "

All drank the toast upstanding, with an inclination
towards the Prince of Wales, while Mother Butler
nodded pleasantly over her stewpan, and the young
ones prepared for battle.

That chap's a bad 'un," grumbled Vere, who
watched the ferocious exultation of the Pink as he
removed his shirt. " Like a bell he'll come to be
hanged. Eemember, lads, that it's only a bit of fun.
No losing of tempers, mind. That's well, Cy; cool
and quiet does it. I'll pick you up, if Jem will attend
to the Pink. You, Cribbb, to be referee."

No, no," objected Brinsley, who could not be
accused of shirking his punch. *ras there are no
ropes, 'tis our place to form a ring. Let's have it
shipshape. Come, mother, lend your arms."

Thus, in the small hours, by the feeble glimmer of
cheap dips, on a sanded floor, within a ring formed
by the stretched arms of two princes of the blood, a
peer of the realm, a statesman, an ex-coal-porter and
ex-butcher, and fat Dame Quickly, did the two heroes
first try each other's mettle, who, six years later
on But we must not look ahead.

Caleb, who was half-seas over, rushed forward like
a frantic windmill ; but Cy showed him the prevented,
and sent him flying against the Duke of York like a
pellet from a popgun.

"Steady there!" bawled the Hebrew. "Damn
him ! always lusty."

"Steady it isn't," panted his Grace. "He's knocked
all the wind out of me ! "

Good ! Much better ! " continued the anxious
Jew. " By the beard of Moses, magnificent ! By
Aaron, like a watch — tick-tack ! Did you see, your
Highness ? Look how he's marked him from liver to
ear with his right manley. I taught him that. Ah !
there goes the SjDrig to grass, with his teeth
upwards ! "

Cestus did nothing of the sort ; and indignant Nestor
Ward, growing excited, threw out sarcastic allusions
to pigs and pork, the Queen of Sheba, and the amours
of David the king, to which the Jew retorted in high
dudgeon, with a cataract of ingenious oaths. Far
from being floored, Cy distinguished himself by admirable
coolness and judgment, which drew forth the
ferocity of Ann. " Don't be shy, milksop ! " he
jeered. " The devil wipes his tail with a poor man's
pride, so don't be too fine to hit out, if you know
how ! "

Cyrus did hit out ; lightly, as befitted the occasion,
and swiftly, too. But he acted for the most part on

the defensive ; while his patron shrieked wild bets,
which there were none to take. This veracious
chronicler cannot say how long the contest might
have lasted — the supper might have been cooked to
cinders — but for a timely interruption. Jem Beecher
was roaring with stentorian lungs, " Go it, Sprig !
Bravo, bravo ! " when a loud hammering sounded
from without, and a shrill voice breathed threats of
vengeance. The ex-Champion of England, the pattern
fistic athlete, no sooner caught its dulcet tone, than he
turned deadly pale and implored the floor to swallow
him. And well he might ; for 'twas his Bunch of Rue,
the only being upon earth of whom he stood in awe —
a raw-boned female, who, when exasperated by gin to
the required pitch of frenzied jealousy, would sally
forth after her absent lord, and, lying in wait, batter
his unresisting head with frying-pan or rolling-pin.

'* Oh, mercy ! " he said, as, dropping the Pink, for
whom he officiated as bottle-holder, he made for the
casement. Once or twice he had escaped by means
of cunning fables — had been taken by a pressing,
seized by a bum-bailiff ; but she had found him out,
and was the more jealous, calling him a gay deceiver.
"Quick! How does it open?" he whispered, in
agitated haste.

Who is it ? " asked Sheridan.

My good lady ! " groaned the pugilist, struggling
with a rusty hasp.

Oh, Lord ! " cried both the princes in sympathetic
chorus.

Forcing the lattice, the ex-Champion fled, hotly
pursued by the Bunch of Rue, whose horrid imprecations
faded away in the dark cave of sullen night.
A chill fell on the party, for the appalling contretemps
kindled dread reminiscences in the bosoms of the
prodigals. It was some time before they rallied and
could discuss with equanimity a majestic steaming
mess of tripe and onions. But there is always a
subtle satisfaction to be derived from another's grief,
however much we may ourselves have suffered. So,
by the time two more punch-bowls had been discussed,
Mother Butler was called on to warble a ditty, after
which the Prince of Wales obliged — he could sing a
very good song ; and then, all joining in the kidd}'-
catch, '' Begone, dull care ! " Lord Osmington's friends-became
sociable, and prepared to make a night of it.

VOL. T.

CHAPTEK VI.

KENSINGTON.

In course of time the Dreadful Woman par excellence
(not Mary Anne Clarke, nor Madam Beecher), by dint
of unwearied screeching, worried herself out of banishment.
She quitted Blackheath, scene of so much
unwisdom, and was installed in Kensington Palace,
where she gave orgies to shady associates. But this
concession on the part of the royal family was far
from satisfying one who was nothing if not a martyr.
The Queen steadily declined to receive her Royal
Highness. Her only daughter had been torn sometime
since from the arms of an agonized and devoted
mamma, whose heart-strings were rent in twain.
This, at least, was the picturesque light in which
Caroline chose to put the matter ; though even King
George, who helped her as much as he dared, was
compelled to admit that the menage of the Princess of
Wales was no fitting place for a child. Shortly after
the investigation, whose impotent conclusion so vexed
the Prince, the heiress to the crown of England was

removed from the care of lier mother and installed
in a bower in Windsor Park, there to be educated
under the judicious care of his gracious Majesty himself.
That he did not shine as a tutor was sufficiently
proved by the conduct of his sons, and his efforts as
chief governess to a young lady were hardly more
successful. The Princess Charlotte, treated as though
of the male sex, grew up a tom-boy, and picked up
ideas in intercourse with her lively uncles which were
certainly not strait-laced. One of the jocund youths
had not blushed to introduce a chere amie into the
presence of his niece. The Queen, who was for ever
skirmishing with her irrepressible granddaughter —
the two were natural enemies — was scandalized, and
lifted up her hands in horror, when the fleeting
observed, with careless aplomb, *' What does it matter?
The dukes can't marry whom they like, and they
must love somebody, you know." Her iDreceiDtresses
were changed from time to time, but were of little
real service ; for their charge was of stronger character
than they, and scoffed at their tiresome tirades. As
years went on, and she bloomed into a tall and handsome
gii-1, her position became more and more difficult
; for she stood half-way betwixt a pair who were
antagonistic, and if she bent ever so little towards one
was sure to be blamed by the other. She saw her
papa but rarely, for fleeting maidens were not in
his line ; but was permitted to visit her mamma each

Saturday, on which occasions the Comus crew were
supposed to be banished, lest they should sully her
innocence. No doubt it is a severe measure to
separate a mother altogether from her child ; yet it
would have been prudent, perhaps, to have adopted an
extreme course in the case of the Princess Caroline.
Such influence as she had over her daughter was all
for evil. She was constantly encouraging a girl, who
was already too precocious, to distrust her father and
be tenacious of her rights, whereby she was counselling
rebellion and a revolt from wholesome bondage. The
stern little Queen, on the other hand, perceiving the
peril, strove to bridle the damsel, and bit her with a
curb; and so, a prey to faction, born to worry and
anxiety, used as a stick to belabour others withal, she
passed through a tempestuous childhood, in which
she was never young.

As her husband hoped and prayed, the Princess of
Wales was daily losing ground with all, except the
mob. Grain by grain she was dropping self-respect,
sinking into the sea from which there was no rescue.
Although a contingent of respectable people still clung
to the labouring bark for pity's sake, they knew that
it was rudderless. Caroline had no intellectual
pursuits, was devoured by a mania for intrigue, and
fond of doing outrageous things because they were
extraordinary. As friends of rank fell off, she filled
their places with others of a lower kind, who picked

lier pocket while they fawned, and played into the
hands of her foes hy damaging her reputation.
Despite his errors, the Prince, her spouse, was beloved
by those about him; the Princess never, for she bored
her guests to weariness, and disgusted them by petty
back-biting and wishing people dead. Her parties
were of a curious description. We will look in upon
a Saturday evening, in the year of grace 1811, when
the Princess Charlotte is expected to arrive with my
lady Clifford to pay her weekly visit. There is a
roaring fire, though the thermometer is at eighty, and
on it pots and pans are simmering, filled with bubbling
cosmetics. The apartment, if shabby and unwept,
is comfortable enough, bedizened with an incongruous
mixture of valuable finery and trash. Here is a flycatcher
in paper, there an antique ornament. On a
shelf are some caskets of jasper and onyx ; by their
side a cottage made of shells and a box of Tunbridge
ware. In one corner is a piano, upon which Signor
Sapio is strumming an accompaniment to the squalling
of his wife ; while their son, a handsome young
Italian, sprawls, like a lazzaroni, on the floor, clasping
the hand of his hostess. She is splendidly attired
in white crape, with a silver drapery falling all over
her person, while her rough hair is dyed of the brightest
brown, her cheeks and lips of the most vivid crimson.
In a second corner, the old Duchess of Brunswick,
her mother — between the two there is no love lost

is snoring, as if about to have a fit ; for these
symposia drag their length along during an interminable
period, and the atmosphere might be cut with
a knife. Not far away, masked by a screen. Lord'
Byron and Lady Caroline Lamb are cooing like turtle-doves,
too much devoted to heed the hubbub. Sir
William Gell is there, a loose and gay amateur
antiquary, who tries with all his might to keep his
eyes open ; and Monk Lewis, clever but disreputable
penman ; and Pucitti, and Tramezani and his wife,
singers of a second class from the Opera and Vauxhall,.
who are present on a familiar footing. At the head of
the table sits Captain Manby, a battered-visaged sea-dog,
for whom the Princess took a fancy last time she
was at Ramsgate, and whom she installed as master
of the revels and first favourite for the nonce in her
impulsive, tactless way. Bony Ambrosia Cotton and
Leoline complete the coterie, though others are-expected
later ; for Caroline ignores the conditions on
which she may see her child, declining to be parted
from the Comus crew even for a single evening. To
enter the room is like tumbling into a kettle of broiling
sprats ; the nose is affected by an unseemly mixing
of odours, and the ears are assailed by an uproar as
of cats upon the tiles, while the younger Sepia
murmurs tender things, and his parents squeak their
loudest.

Captain Manby is disturbed in his mind, for the

Princess Charlotte's carriage is heard upon the gravel,
and the gallant salt, forgetting that it was Saturday,
has come to dinner sans f aeon in his muddy boots.

"No matter," cries his hostess, hoarsely. "De child
will take her dinner in de oder room, and come in tous
afterwards; and if you keep your legs under de
tablecloth, she won't see you are not in stockings.
Leoline, my pet, go look to de Princess, and see she
is provided. Sapio, my dear, get Tramezani to de
instrument. Your murder creaks like a door-hinge."

Leoline obeyed orders with alacrity, for although
he had been four years by this time in the service of
her Highness, he never could conquer a feeling of
despondency whilst witnessing the royal saturnalia.
The little lad, who at twelve had prated so proudly
of his ancestress Anne Plantagenet, was basking in
princely rays; but they were not as pregnant with
good as ardent poetic fancy pictured, and, exhausted
sometimes by late hours and stifled with foul air and
fetid scents, he caught himself wondering now and
again whether the diadem was really tinsel — if true
happiness lay in obscurity. Happiness ! Who is
really happy ? No. He began at nineteen, seeing
what he saw, to suspect the impossibility of earthly
good or happiness, and to indulge in speculations as
to the hut where dwelt Content. Caroline was kind,
and he liked his mistress, whilst deploring her undisciplined
conduct ; but the spell which prevented anyone

from loving her worked upon him as upon others.
At first, in the belief that he might be made a means
of annoying her consort's dearest friend, she made
much of her new toy, clad him in sumptuous raiment,
combed his golden hair, and drank his health as
the earl." But this too innocent excitement palled
on her very soon. Though she kept him in her
service and treated him with familiarity, she found
young Sapio, the Italian music-master, who had
limpid eyes but no pedigree, more fascinating, and
was apt to cry out with impatience and cut Leo short
if he hinted of his mammy's marriage lines and the
chance of claiming his own. In truth, a marriage
certificate was naught but a symbol of trouble to her
Royal Highness. Those with whom she elected now to
live made light of such paltry rubbish. She was so
odd a combination, that none could quite make up
their minds as to whether they liked or loathed her.
At one time she displayed the lazy, good-tempered
awkwardness of the hippopotamus, combined with the
coarse heartiness of a Dutch vroiv ; at another she
could be so phlegmatic as to revolt the companion of
the moment. When a young postillion fell off the
leader of her team one night and had his legs crushed
by the carriage-wheel, she showed no emotion whatever,
grumbling only at the delay that would make
her late for a party. So was it with her only daughter.
As we shall see, she spurned that child's affection at

a supreme moment, and, after shocking all the world,
disgusted even Charlotte.

At nineteen, Leoline was slim and well-made, if
slight — a i^i^etty fellow, with the real hel air. His
complexion of milk and roses spoke of constitutional
delicacy; but no one could help admiring his fine
deportment, his deep blue eyes, and aureole of well-brushed
gold, any more than they could his aspect of
dreamy pensiveness, of gazing far away into a better
and brighter sphere. To him the planet on which
he crawled left much to be desired, and, young as he
was, bleak waves of disappointment swept now and
again over his soul, and nipped the tendrils of hope.
It was all very well to endeavour to console himself
by reflecting that man is a creature of circumstance,
warmed into life and action by the currents into which
he is cast. 'W'liat if the cm-rents are frozen and decline
to thaw ? His ocean, bitter cold at first, had warmed
a little; but then it had been chilled again, and
numbed his sensitive nature. Would his aspirations
ever be realized ? It did not look like it. Sure
'twould be wise to renounce shadowy ambition, worldly
longings that might not be gratified. The poetic
lamp was alight within — Monk Lewis told him so —
and Lord Byron showed signs of incipient jealousy.
Would it not be best to devote his energies to wooing
the Muses in serious earnest, and, resigning cloudy
pretensions to an earthly coronet, win by talent and

perseverance a wreath of undying bays? Then the
spirit of disquiet jogged him with his elbow and
whispered, " Why not wear both, Hke my lord Byron ?
Fortune is a fickle nymph who loves the brave, and
the future is unknown. Hope on, hope ever. Cling
to her skirt, twine arms about her waist, refusing tolet
her go, and by-and-by she will hearken to your
suit." The young man had reason enough for not
being satisfied with his position, for it was anomalous.
A page he was — half servant and half lowly friend ;
Earl of Northallerton, recognized lord of many acres,
he never could be except by miracle. The case was
so desperate, and Caroline grew so indifferent about
his chances, that he would have come in time to give
them calmly up, contemplating vanished futile dreams
with half-sad amusement ; have come quite cheerfully
to don the harness of literary fame, starting from the
lower level of ordinary men. But, unluckily, the
Princess Charlotte meddled with his peace of mind,
and nourished fading illusions with her prattle. The
strange, half-developed details of his story stirred her
girlish romance, and she constantly exhorted him to
be of good cheer, for when she was Queen of England
she would see that he had his own. Now, if Caroline
was a broken reed, Charlotte was to all appearances
steady of purpose, old beyond her years, and Leoline
felt justified in pinning faith to her. But she was too
young to perceive the absurdity of building houses for

the nascent poet on the sand. She quite believed
what she said, and thought she was doing a kindness
by encouraging the yearnings of the nameless one;
forgetting that King George, if weak in the upper
story had a constitution of iron, and that it had not
dawned on her papa yet that he was other than a boy.
Life seems so long to persons in their teens ; and what,
pray, is the legitimate employment of adolescence
if not castle-building ? Charlotte fully intended todo
wondrous things as soon as she was queen, not
choosing to consider the time which might elapse
between the year of grace 1811 and the date of her
coronation; forgetting that hope too long deferred
breaketh the human heart. She liked Leoline, for he
was the only person with whom she could converse on
the weekly visits to mamma. The Comus crew were
afraid, and shrank from her, and she repaid their
aversion with interest. He was drawn to her because,
independent of her position of Princess, she was a
sweet girl, who shone like a transient beam into the
stye in which it was his lot to vegetate. Besides, they
had a bond of union, a common topic of engrossing
interest of which they never tired. Are you surprised
to hear that this pleasant subject for discussion was
no other than Miss Abigel Eowe ?

This is how it was. Masters and professors having
accomplished their delightful task, the finished and
complete Miss Eowe came out in London society under

the chaperonage of my lord Osmington, and was so
well received that her benefactor was delighted with
his work. Brummel, who had watched her progress,
was good enough to give his countenance; Alvanley
swore that Euphrosyne was the most charming of
debutantes ; the Prince of Wales said she was pretty.
What more was needed to secure a triumph ? My
lady Castlereagh, glad to oblige the Heir-apparent's
crony, introduced the complete and finished young
person of fashion at Almack's, where the piquancy of
her unusual style and fearless ways produced sensation.
What a funny little witch it was, with petite but
perfect figure, gipsy eyes, nez retrousse, and short,
crisp black curls ! Who on earth could she be ? My
lord's natural daughter, some wiseacres whispered;
while others suggested that he intended to crown his
eccentric career by marrying an adopted foundling.
A few muttered that her mother was an Italian ora
Spaniard, which particular foreigner it was difficult
to say, considering the constant change that went on
in the Noah's Ark. However, that concerned nobody,
since Brummel and Lady Castlereagh approved. By-and-by
she would be my lady Osmington, or at least
an heiress, if my lord did not mean to marry.
Sufficient for the present that she was a nut-brown
fay, gifted with amazing assurance. With what sangfroid
did she perform her entrechats on the first trying
night at Almack's, an ordeal of which many a

debutante had almost died ! "Without the smallest
hesitation she stood up on the sacred floor, and, to
please the Prince of Wales, executed a shawl-dance ;
and then, actually tapping Brummel's arm, ordered
him to fetch a glass of lemonade, and sat down as if
nothing had happened. There was no earthquake.
*' Elle ira loin'' said Esterhazy ; and in sooth she was
an astonishing young woman, not bold, but self-possessed.
Alvanley's nickname of Euphrosyne clung
to her henceforth, for, indeed, she seemed the goddess
of mirth, laughter, and glee incarnate. Lord Islington
having made no advances, and not showing signs
of making any, she was able to conclude with relief
that he had no intention of proposing. She had
accepted the inevitable with regard to cousin Cyrus.
Every one was as kind as possible. Brummel even
went so far as to pronounce her manners " pretty
well." Why, then, with a feckless sky, should she
not be joyous ? The particular object of her naive
worship was the Prince of Wales. The open-mouthed
awe with which the rural maid had surveyed the
royal Antinous at Battle Magna was developing into
affectionate veneration. Sure no man ever had so
fine a leg, so grand a figm^e (the obtrusive rotundity
was shuttered in with stays), so sweet and bewitching
a smile ; and he who was never deaf to hj^mns from
feminine lips was obliging enough to flirt. Quite in
arcadian fashion, though, for there was that about

her which forbade the taking of Liberties. Even the
other debutantes, whom she snuffed out with her glory,
admitted that their rival's character was as pure as
the dawn at sunrise, that she was refreshingly downright,
as unshackled by small prejudice as the wind.
It not unnaturally occurred to his Koyal Highness that
turbulent Charlotte, who was growing distressingly
big, would want a female friend, and that she could
not have a better one than a girl who was a trifle
older than herself, who never would become a pander
last, not least, who adored her papa, and would
teach his daughter to do likewise. And so it came
about that the Princess and Lord Osmington's protegee
were brought together, and took to each other at once.
Charlotte appreciated the strong, fearless independence
of Abigel ; while the latter perceived and pitied
the difficult position of her new friend, and saw the
sterling worth that underlay her asperity. When
Charlotte was allowed to go to town, she always
lunched at Osmington House ; while, as for Abigel, she
was constantly at Windsor, breathing whiffs of the
country. Of course Leoline saw little of his playfellow,
attached as he was by whimsical fate to the
opposition camp ; but Charlotte was delighted to act
as a go-between, and relate to each the thoughts and
aspirations of the other. The Princess was fifteen
now, but looked twenty, for her figure was already
formed. Although by no means graceful, she was

distinguish. Unusually tall and broad-shouldered, there
was a soupcon of clumsiness about her voluptuous
shape, which suggested that she would soon grow
stout ; her face would have been beautiful, but that
it seemed flat and sadly wanted shade. She had a
quantity of fine flaxen hair, but, as is often the case
with blondes, the eyebrows were of the same colour
as the skin, and the lashes nearly white. In dress,
she showed a cultivated taste. As she stood talking
fretfully to Leoline, who had just warned her of the
presence of the crew, she wore over a muslin sku't
a tunic of pale-blue satin, trimmed with point and
gold embroidery, a blue velvet hat and sweeping
feather, with an aigrette of sapphires and diamonds.

Her Royal Highness was in a tantrum, and gave
ill-temper vent. " It's too bad, and I won't stand
it," she roundly declared, " and you may go and tell
my mother so. How often has she been-warned not
to make me meet low people ? And yet, from the
noise, she must have searched Whitechapel. I shall
be mewed up closer than ever ; forbidden to come at
all ; be permitted to see no one but grandmamma's
horrid tabbies. When ill-bred adventurers take too
much wine, they are dangerous. Lady de Clifford,
stop my coach ! We will go home again."

Leoline implored the outraged damsel to be patient.
If she came no more, how much the emptier would be
his life ! Would she not consent to take her dinner

in the drawing-room alone, while he carried her
protests to mamma? Nobody had taken too much
wine, or ever got drunk in that house, till the advent
of whiskey punch ; for was it not notorious that the
strongest stomachs succumbed before the vintages of
Caroline ? If she could only coax the Prince of Wales
to taste her wine, she would be amply revenged fora
catalogue of wrongs, however voluminous. Until the
moment for ardent spirits supervened, Byron, Gell,
and Lewis invariably drank water. Therefore there
was nothing to fear. The crew, when the damsel
came among them, always shrank into abject nothingness,
and sought obscurity like spiders. For the
present, the motley gathering was somnolent and dull,
occupied by the process of digestion. What Leoline
said was no doubt true ; so the young lady resolved to
wait, and the page went off to arrange the difficulty,
and remonstrate with his hardened mistress. Caroline
growled that her child was abominably prim, servile
to papa and granny ; but that it was her business to
counteract all that. Ordering the lazzaroni to rise
from the carpet and behave himself, she announced
that she would take a walk. For reasons, the intrepid
sea-dog could not stir from the shelter of the tablecloth.
The Sapios and singers from Vauxhall dreaded
the illustrious virgin's sneers. When she entered the
room, there was a general scuffle as each withdrew
from notice — all but the blushing sailor, who retained

his place at the table with deprecating and ungainly
salutes.

*' Kiss me, my angel," Caroline exclaimed with
protruded lips. " I wonder you are let come at all to
one who is persecuted. How is the fat brute ? "

Charlotte frowned. " How many times have I
asked you not to talk of my father before strangers ? "

Pooh ! All de world knows and shall know more,"
retorted Caroline, turning to the company. "Monsieur
Percival is writing a brochure about me to vex
Mrs. Fitzherbert's husband. De public shall read it,
and shall see de lies he told — de saddest man Heaven
did ever born ! "

Are you sure, madam, that Mr. Percival is not
working for himself at your expense," asked Monk
Lewis — " trjdng to force Government to stop his
mouth ? There have been so many surprising discloses
lately, that a few more might overturn the
throne."

*what care I!" snorted Caroline, with a shrug.
'did I not come to England to be told by Lady
Jersey that I was not a wife ? "

*' Oh, mother ! " murmured miserable Charlotte.

"I fail to see," pursued Mr. Lewis, "how the
publishing of damaging charges against yourself can
do you any good."

It will vex /ii?n," returned the Princess of Wales,
and de Queen, who is so liautame. His Majesty

VOL. I. 10

was good to me, I own ; but now he is ill. * I will
befriend you,' de good King said, ' though my family
will be my death.' And he is so ill, so ill, and I've
no powerful friend at all but Monsieur Percival and
Whitbread. De Queen shall receive me at a Drawing-room
before tout le monde, or I will publish. De
crown dey will not have me wear. A fig for de
crown ! I will publish, and make dem jump. Allons.
We will walk."

The Princess Charlotte bit her lip with annoyance,
and darted a look of reproach at Leoline; for the
Comus crew, amused by the situation, emerged from
the dark and grinned. Whenever she came to Kensington,
there was sure to be a scene. Would she be
driven, admitting papa to be right, to shun mamma's
society of her own accord ? What plausible excuse to
make ? Her mother was her mother, after all. The
Queen was full of searching questions after these
weekly visits, and there was so little good to tell.
What would the public think, who persisted in
believing the discarded wife to be a martyr and a
paragon? 'Twould be true, but indecorous, to
explain that mamma was no better than she should
be. Only the other day the chaise was stopped by a
countryman, who said, "Bless your winsome face!
Never desert your mother." Was it permissible to
hope that, when the young heiress to the throne
should assume her lofty place in the world, she might

also by devoted patience gain ascendency over a misguided
mamma ? Such a result would be to mutual
advantage. What a noble task ! How high a labour
of love, but how arduous a one for a young girl to
accomplish single-handed against overwhelming odds !
Each time she came to Kensington, Charlotte argued
thus within herself, and, after a struggle with pride
and shame, arrived at the same resolve. For her
erring mother's sake, she must bear and wait and
hearken to as little evil as might be ; but it was
irksome to so haughty a nature to be obliged to
wrangle before these low people, and to be compelled
to listen to things, too plainly put, which no daughter
should hear from a parent.

The princesses passed through the private wicket
into Kensington Gardens, and strolled among the
populace. Caroline, because she knew it was not
becoming, was fond of such excursions, especially
after the gloaming, when she could chatter to people
without much fear of being recognized. But more
amusing far were wanderings further afield — to the
nursery gardens about Haddington, where comical
adventures might be sought among the yokels, questions
asked as to what they thought of the Princess of
Wales, spicy anecdotes related of the fat brute's
delinquencies. When Charlotte was of the party, she
dared not go these lengths, and was sure to be cross
in consequence ; for 'tis chafing to stand in awe of a

mere chit, whose infantine brow is wrinkled into
frowns.

Mother and child walked side by side, followed by
Leoline and the two ladies-inviting. The rest of
the party preferred staying within doors.

*' I hate that stuck-up Lady de Clifford ! " began
Caroline. " A great girl like you should have done
with governesses."

"I'm kept as close as a nun," agreed Charlotte,
promptly ; for this was a mine for the harassing of
the foe at which mamma had long been working.
"But in three years I shall be of age, and then I'll do
as I please."

As likely now as then," laughed Caroline. " Your
boy papa will keep you in de nursery, and de Queen
too. Quelle idee ! Pap and children's frocks as long
as possible, and no establishment until you are
forty ! "

"By law, at eighteen I am of age," cried dignified
Charlotte ; " and I'm sick and tired of leading-strings.
They treat me like a baby. Even Abigel Kowe says it
is a shame, who won't admit that the Prince of Wales
can be mistaken."

"He wants perpetual youth; no tell-tale grown-up
girls."

"It's granny's doing as much as his. She's a
horrid, horrid old cat ! "

Mit claws, my child, dat scratch. Abigel Piowe

You see too miicli of her who loves my monstre and is
protected b}^ his bosom friend."

*'No one is more genuine and true than Abigel,"
Charlotte answered stiffly Ask Leone."

"Her protector is one of my greatest enemies, like
his bosom friend ; so, if you loved me, you would hate
her. Is it not so, Ambrosia ? My lord quite lives at
Carlton House."

"Fie, madam!" cried Madam Cotton, bridling.
Thank goodness, we've seen but few lords of late,
and I vow that those who dawdle about Carlton House
are their own enemies. I would prefer the open abuse
of such a set to their friendship. Nowadays you knock
at an ancestral castle and find — what? Emptiness.
Ask for my lord duke ; he's never there. What's his
appearance ? Effeminate disease. His habits ? Relaxed
luxury. His situation ? Titled beggary or
polished fraud. His Grace, with a thousand quarterings,
is a shattered wreck of dissipation, a slave of
Jews, a forgotten benefactor of ungrateful sycophants.
That is the type, madam. My lord Osmington is like
that, and so are the rest. I would not grieve, if I
were you, because they plot behind your back."

The picture's but too faithful," chimed in Lady de
Clifford. " When my lord Osmington's time comes,
he'll go to a warm place."

If you all detest him so much," Charlotte observed,
why not bestir yourselves for Leoline ? His looks

bespeak the true Northallerton. It would be a
glorious way to be quits with your enemy. Trace
Leo's lineage."

Ah ! Le pauvre enfant ! " exclaimed the Princess,
impatiently; while her page held his breath. *rand
de trouble, ma chere, and de cost ? I've thought of it,
but it is too troublesome. It would cost dear, and I
have no money for so large expense."

Leoline sighed and clasped his hands together.
Was it, indeed, quite hopeless, then? Did he care
more about it than he pretended, or why should his
heart thump so ? Decidedly it was never to be. He
must realize that once and for ever, and crush the
remnants of the folly out. Had he not assured his
zealous advocate many and many a time, draping
himself in a corner of humility's tattered robe, that
he was quite reconciled to a lowly lot; that all his
soul panted for — if anything might be done — was to
escape from turmoil, to be allowed to retire into
solitude, there to create a world of elfin fancies ? But
this was as unattainable as the abandoned wish. He
was doomed to drag out existence in the kettle of
sprats, whose atmosphere was inimical to poesy.
Was it for this he had been rescued from the blacksmith
? Caroline gave bread and meat and clothes ;
no more was to be expected now. The horizon of Leo
was dark; he had cause, he thought, for shrinking
discontent. If only they would leave him undiscussed,

at least, and let him grow used to looking forward to
nothing. But no ; Charlotte was always harping on
this string, playing on his quivering nerves, while she
supposed she did him service.

No money ! " she echoed hotly. " Better to spend
it on him than be fleeced by fortune-hunters. Those
ugly, odious Sapios will bleed you to the last drop."

Two red spots showed through the rouge on the
Princess's cheeks. Mother and child were, as usual,
about to quarrel ; and when they did, the elder lady
was apt to grow loud and shrewish. Such exciting
pastime, well enough at home, was ill-suited to a
public promenade. Leoline was recalled from unpleasant
meditation by the necessity of resuming an
unpleasant but familiar role, and proceeded to pour
oil upon the waters.

"I have no desire," he hastened to say, " that my
kind mistress should waste her money over that which
may not be bought. Moreover, if Madam Ambrosia
is right in her description, better to leave coronets
alone. Do not let a humble, faithful servant be a
cause of discord between your Royal Highnesses. But,
as the matter pains me yet — I cannot help it — pray,
oh, pray let the subject be dropped for ever."

This sensible speech recalled Charlotte to herself,
and she smiled on the speaker, as she repeated
inwardly that his future must be her care. The
reproof was merited, she acknowledged ; for she was

not here to indulge in a passage-farms in Kensington
Gardens. Alas ! what was she come for ? The
visit was turning out disagreeably, as her visits
always did ; so it would be prudent to cut it short.
But she would not abandon Leo's cause, for all his
protestations. The wicked usurper, Lord Osmington,
should be ousted, or her name was not Charlotte.
What did he mean by professing to prefer obscurity ?
How spiritless to give way before a little difficulty !
her untried ardour whispered. Sure opposition should
brace our nerves for the combat, since it is one of the
numberless mundane paradoxes that, though warfare
is condemned as improper, yet we were made to fight.
Do not tiny lads fall a-pummelling with tiny fists
before they are breeches in obedience to a natural
law' ? But holy John went about exhorting " little
children to love one another." Is it an outcome of
the principle that what is nice must needs be naughty
that instincts, as such, are to be subdued? John,
perhaps, was himself a quarrelsome little boy once,
and banged his little brothers. He was old when he
preached his sermon — had reached the time when it
comes home to most of us that there is little here
below that is worth a combat. Does there not come
a moment when we survey the past and marvel atour
fruitless, unnecessary energy ? Why did we
struggle after vain gauds that were not worth the
winning ? "All is vanity ! " cried Solomon. Instead

of wasting precious tissue, how much less foolish to
accept and make the best of things, chewing the cud
of the little good that is attainable. Bees are the
Solomon of the insect world. If a great stupid moth
crawls into a hive, do the entomological sages move
heaven and earth and crack their sinews to eject the
obstacle? No. To them the moving of so vast a
body would mean weeks and weeks of labour. They
kill the intruder with their stings ; then, embalming
him with wax, transform his corse into a species of
ornamental monument. I dare say they use it as a
lounge, after the day's work is done. Perhaps queen
bee mounts the obstruction as a throne, and from the
towering point of vantage, like a Boadicea, harangues
her armies. They cover up the obtrusive lumber,
and accept its presence with unruffled submission.
Charlotte, the chit, was not a philosopher; was a
fidget, like Martha, instead of, like sister Mary,
remaining peaceful. She could not see that Leoline,
perhaps, was choosing the better part by accepting
what seemed the inevitable without the breaking of a
lance. Her penchant was for war, for her nerves were
strong and spirits buoyant ; but it would never do to
enter the lists with mamma, whose disposition was
also combative. So she marched through the palace
with pinched hips, and got into the lumbering coach,
and drove away with Lady de Clifford, a lonely,
melancholy mortal, with an aching heart ; and when

she was fairly gone, the Comus crew indulged in a
delirious fandango. The sound of wheels on the
gravel caused no consternation now. The sea-dog
could show his boots — put them on the table if he
liked. The Sapios could cringe about their hostess,
and paddle with her hand, and whisper that there was
rent to pay which really could not be met. The handsome
lazzaroni could prostrate himself again, and
swear in execrable French that the divinity, at whose
feet he sprawled, was the perfection of half-dressed
loveliness. Tramezani could wheedle and flatter,
while cynical Gell and wicked Monk Lewis laughed
in their sleeves ; for aggressive innocence had rolled
away, and the old Duchess of Brunswick, waking
from a nap, was calling in discordant tones for her
supper of potted lampreys. Punch came in, and
decorum departed. Was it wonderful that Leoline
should have groaned in spirit, groping darkly for
content ?

Chapter Iii.

AT HOME AND ABROAD.

You have had a glimpse of the working of the bad
fairy's present number one, yclept Imprudence; to
find the results of the other, Procrastination, we must
take a survey of affairs.

The political barometer, at the period which occupies
us, remained with obstinate steadiness at "stormy,"
for the unvarnished acrimony which marked social
intercourse was a hundredfold more bitter within the
walls of Lords and Commons. From the accession of
George III. to the death of Mr. Pitt, the Tories carried
all before then. Lord North upheld Toryism for ten,
Pitt for twenty years : the one against Burke, Fox,
and the disasters incident to the American war ; the
other against Fox, Grey, and the failures which
distinguished the struggle against France. It was
unfortunate that while difficulties abroad and at home
were growing daily, the light of parliamentary glory
should be flickering in the socket.

Pitt died of Austerlitz, and Toryism was so weakened

by his death that there seemed nothing for it but to
try the Opposition, whose nominal chief — following
the traditions of the Brunswick family — was, of
course, the Prince of Wales. The King detested Fox,
partly on account of the wildness of his private life ;
but, driven into a corner by events, he consented
at last to the formation of a comprehensive and broad-bottomed
coalition, which became satirically known
by the title of " All the Talents." In its ranks were
to be found such jarring elements as Fox, Moira,
Grey, Grenville, Sheridan — the last, despite his 
habits, obtaining the minor post of
Treasurer to the Navy. So extraordinary an agglomeration
of discordant particles soon became universally
unpopular.

Affairs abroad were hard enough to manage, but
there was a cause of difference at home with
which " All the Talents " were quite unfit to cope.
Religious squabbles have in all ages proved more
destructive of peace and good-will than any other
source of earthly woe, so it was natural that religion
should step in as usual to set politicians by the ears.
We have already seen Mrs. Fitzherbert ruined, while
honest people grieved. The sober-sided had been
growing more and more ashamed since then of the
disgraceful thraldom which ground Woman Catholics
into the dust. Their persecution was worthy of the
darkest days of ignorance, and public opinion, anxious

as usual for reform, called for the speedy emancipation
of serfs for conscience' sake. But would-be reformers
reckoned without the King, who consistently loathed
the Scarlet Woman with the unreasoning hatred of a
lunatic. It was a sine qua non with him, that all who
desired to take office must share, or pretend to share,
his feelings of narrow bigotry. As titular chief of
the Opposition, the Prince of Wales was a strenuous
advocate for Emancipation — to please Mrs. Fits
many people said — but, as time wore on, and
the King's attacks of mental aberration increased infrequency,
his opinions on this, as on other subjects,
underwent a change.

When the Whigs, with Fox at their head, took
office, they were handicapped by a pledge to the
Roman Catholics with regard to this burning question,
but finding themselves thwarted and threatened by
angry majesty, they shilly-shally, tried a compromise,
tottered hither and thither for very feebleness
of purpose ; while, as for their attitude abroad, they
were utterly and ludicrously hoodwinked by Talleyrand
and his imperial master. *' All the Talents "
became a laughing-stock, a subject for scornful indignation.
Fox at this juncture died. Freed from
the influence of their leader, and disgusted with their
folly, the Prince of Wales gave up the Whigs, and, in
discarding their principles, withdrew his support from
emancipation. For some years he ceased to take

interest in politics, while the country cursed the
blunderers, regretting the days of Pitt.

The national mind of England never comes to a
wholly wrong conclusion. The innumerable diverse
currents which sway a nation that may freely express
its thoughts, sustain the healthy activity of opinion
much as the grand contrivances of nature keep the
air sweet, the ocean pure. After the demise of Fox,
his administration stumbled along for awhile under
Grey and Grenville, and when at last it fell to pieces,
'twas amidst general relief and joy. Then followed a
ministry under the leadership of the Duke of Portland,
an amiable nonentity, who appointed Mr. Percival, a
rising lawyer and promising debater, to be Chancellor
of the Exchequer; while the three Secretaries of
State — Castlereagh, Canning, and Hawkesbury — held
office for War, Foreign Affairs, the Home Department.
But his Grace of Portland was old, and not a little
imbecile ; Percival, who hated the Catholics, was but
half-fledged, and a molecule at best ; Castlereagh was
hampered and ill at ease with his colleagues. An
impenetrable pall of mediocrity seemed to have fallen
over Government. It was sad that the bungling
ministry of " All the Talents " should give place to
nothing better than that of "All the Hacks;" and
this at a time of extremest peril, when England stood
alone among the vanquished nations to stem the
growing torrent of Bonaparte's ascendency.

In 1807 Napoleon wielded a power unequalled since
the days of Charles Y. Europe was to be conquered,
and he conquered Europe, and then sat down at
leisure to divide the spoil among his soldiers. England
alone resisted the conqueror ; but though she made
shift to stand erect, she had been grievously wounded,
her besom-ces had been severely tried. She had
paid foreign armies, had lavished her wealth and
her blood, with no return but that of seeing the
Continent crouching at the foot of the foe. Was she
to sink in turn, or might she yet endure ? That was
the question. If she might be victorious, in sjDite of
overwhelming odds, who was to lead to victory?
Generals she had, and admirals, and money yet at
the bottom of her purse, but if unsupported at home
her sons would be fighting with tied hands. Napoleon
was not slow to take advantage of the difficulty.
Spain and Portugal were in vassalage to France, but
this was not enough. The incompressibility of British
commerce offended the nostrils of the Emperor. Its
prescription from Spain and Portugal could only be
assured by the presence of French troops. He poured
his forces across the Pyrenees and galloped over the
Peninsula. But England met him there, resolved
on Spanish soil to fight for life or death, and anxious
lookers-on perceived with sorrow that the horizon was
dark with clouds.

Time passed. Isis Grace of Portland eras gathered

to his fathers. Mr. Percival, faute che mieux, took up
the reins — fit chief for so weak a Cabinet. Not but
what he was a good sort of man in his way. A more
wholesome atmosphere than the one he breathed
might have raised his moral tone. In private life
he was not disliked. As an orator, he was sufficiently
fluent, without the wit and bonhomie of North,
the argumentative decision of his quondam rival Fox,
or the bold and commanding eloquence of his friend
and precursor Pitt. He did not shine, but he was
not so dull as some. Under his guidance affairs
at home dragged weakly on, and feebly enough
abroad.

In 1811 an event occurred which divided England
between feelings of grief and of rosy expectation. The
affliction which at intervals since 1788 had darkened
the faculties of majesty returned with overwhelming
force. The Queen endeavoured to conceal the truth ;
but it transpired that the King was mad again, as well
as blind, and that his recovery from this, the most
violent of his attacks, was little probable. A Regency
Bill was passed in February, 1811, transferring the
rights and duties of the crown to the Prince of Wales,
with certain restrictions, which were to last a year,
on the chance of the patient's rallying. With a new
sovereign in the full bloom of life — it soon became
apparent that the reign of George III. was all but
nominally over — it was to be supposed that a new and

vigorous policy would be inaugurated. Ministers
would be changed ; the House swept and garnished ;
fresh blood would certainly be sought to revive the
fainting country. The Whigs, headed by Grey and
Grenville, burned to retrieve the past, and looked
hopefully to him whom they persisted in considering
their chief for a chance to redeem defeat. The Regent
must perforce emerge from retirement. The companions
of his youth had all been Whigs, they said.
^Vhat mattered it that, in the interval, the party
should have earned opprobrium ? However ill-advised
they had been, he would cling to old friends, even
though they might roll him in the mud. While
reckoning chances, they were deficient in memory as
well as talent ; for they forgot the story of Prince Hal,
the fate of Nym and Bardolph. An additional assurance
that their time of triumph was at hand lay, they
considered, in the fact that the Regent had a grudge
against Percival. How could it be otherwise, since
that person was, or had been, the prime adviser of
odious Caroline? Of comes the offender would be
plunged into outer darkness among the very first.
Ardent aspirants formed and reformed the future
Cabinet according to their fancies and desires, and
in so doing overlooked several important points which
might have dashed their hopes. His Royal Highness
had had good cause m the past to be disgusted with
the Whigs, and there was no particular reason to

VOL. I. 11

suppose that they had improved in the interim. A
man who had seen so much of life, who had suffered
and been abused more than he deserved, who. had
abbacy been made to bear the brunt of others' sins,
was likely, in the first instance, to consider what
was most to his own advantage, to seek the course
which led to peace and quiet. His political notions,
snubbed and repressed as he had always been by
his father, were never very firm; and the Whigs
(with a single exception) whom he had loved were
dead. My lords Grey and Grenville, firm allies, were
totally deficient in the social attractions which had
made Fox so brilliant a star ; and, moreover,
Grenville was in the black books of his Royal
Highness, with a double cross against his name,
while Percival's had only one. The latter, to give
himself importance and draw attention to the fact
that he existed, had been guilty of the heinous
sin of advising the Dreadful Woman. That was
bad, and it would require heavy pressure from an
influential source to bring about his pardon. But
Grenville had committed two awful crimes — his guilt
was double-dyed. Was he not Secretary of State
when the never-sufficiently-to-be-regretted matrimonial
alliance was arranged, and had he not sat
on the abortive Delicate Investigation Committee, and
helped to bring in the exasperating verdict ? George
felt no friendship for Grey, and hated Grenville, The

only survivor of the sparkling coterie which once
rendered Carlton House the head-quarters of Opposition
was Sheridan, and he, poor fellow, was too
crushed by misfortune to care about re-entering the
political arena now. Till the end he was a Whig,
repulsing the blandishments of Toryism ; but had he
been induced to speak at this juncture, he would probably
have decided to be neutral, for he personally disliked
Grey and Grenville, in that when opportunity
offered they had been stingy and mean to their
supporters. His influence over the Kegent was
powerful still, but he was too depressed to use it, too
much mangled by trouble's harrow to volunteer
political opinions.

There was a lever working against the Whigs, whose
importance they did not realize. His Royal Highness
was addicted to dallying. Too indolent to think,
unless hard driven, he liked, to hear petticoated darlings
air their sentiments — was a willing Telemachus
at the feet of a sage Calypso. One lady or another
occupied the post of President of the secret council,
retaining the office for a lengthened period, for his
Royal Highness was too lazy to be fickle. At this
moment Madame la President was the Marchioness
of Hertford. No, madam ; you are quite wrong, and
need not sniff behind your fan. The Regent's devotion
to Lady Hertford was perfectly platonic ; even
Caroline admitted as much, who did not say kind

things. She was an energetic elderly person with
brains, who, having discovered that Cupid is god of
mischief, amused herself with politics, in which she
took special interest, for the sake of husband and
son. The former was Lord Chamberlain ; a Colonies
Avhose family was conspicuous for attachment to the
throne — a respectable old party who was fond of his
dinner, and had the grace, ignored by too many
others, to conceal his private naughtiness in a bower
in Seashore Place. His middle-aged son. Lord Yarmouth,
a sociable dog, was particularly obnoxious to
Brummel, who indulged in feeble jokes anent red
herrings, at the expense of his fiery hair ; for was he
not of the vieille souche, while the beau was a parvenu
and did he not go in and out of Carlton House as if
it were his own, and sneer at Nym and Bardolph?
My lady was a clever, far-seeing woman, who had
once been beautiful ; who made the usual post-marital
discovery that she had married the wrong husband ;
and who, resigning without shrieks the hope of a
mutual mind, made the best of the bonbons of this
life, scoffing at its cares. The world elected to talk
scandal about Lady Hertford, at which she shrugged
her shoulders. As for the Prince of Wales, he was in
evil odour, so all he did was wrong.

For reasons of her own, my lady espoused the
cause of Percival; so he did well not to despair of
ultimate forgiveness. She pointed out, as in the

sanctity of the boudoir she glanced up from her
embroidery, that he was not more stupid than Grey
and Grenville, and that, although dull enough,
nothing was to be gained by change. Like better
men, he could be a turncoat, and kick over, if need
were, the ladder that Caroline had held for him.
Save for his own advantage, why should he be
indignant about Caroline? 'T would look mighty
well, indeed, if her staunch ally were to hold up his
hands and reluctantly throw her over. The steersman
was not strong ; yet might he prove the safest
pilot, if his boat could only be manned by a few new
and stalwart sailors. Following close upon this
counsel came mysterious hints that, if the Regent
would maintain the present administration, he would
find its members attentive guardians of his interests.
He was skilfully reminded that, in the matter of
Frederick and Mary Anne — an affair which rankled in
the breast of George — the Whigs had been offensive
and intractable. It was hinted that, if encouraged,
there was nothing to prevent the adviser of the
Dreadful "Woman from becoming the slave of her
spouse. His Royal Highness hummed and hawed,
delayed, procrastinated. It was terrible to be adjured
to show decision. Instead of declaring for one side
or the other, he parleyed, threw out commonplaces,
babbled of his sire's wishes, of the pain that would
accrue from the expulsion of a father's ministers,

declared that in so serious a crisis lie must take time
for study and reflection. He coquetted with the old
flame, held out hopes to the Whigs, was beset with
conscientious scruples, wavered and demurred till both
Government and Opposition, toyed with alternately,
were maddened by tantalizing throes. At the bottom
of all this was the old trouble of 'raising the wind
complicated with a determination to suppress Caroline
and the anguish of constitutional indecision. Which
party would prove most helpful in the matter of the
gruesome female ? Which would promise to remove
the grinding millstone of debt ? Which would restore
to York his forfeited honours and emoluments ? Each
side was to bid for power, while the auctioneer faltered
and vacillated. Weeks and months passed in fruitless
negotiation. The business of the country was at
a standstill. The bidders, harried and agonized,
became as undecided as the royal arbiter; and he,,
finding himself immersed in entanglements of hi
own ravelling, grew utterly confused and irresolute,
and straightway took to his bed.

We are prone to be irate with others for the results
of our own mistakes. George swore from behind his
curtains that such universal haziness of purpose wa
enough to drive a Regent wild. What a chance was
here of shaking off the matrimonial burthen ! Why
would neither party throw down their cards, and
boldly state what they were prepared to do to relieve

a tortured master '? Really, such shilly-shallying on
the part of practical politicians was a crying, unfeeling
shame ! How was it possible to decide anything ?
The Regent couldn't and wouldn't, and the fault was
none of his. Their conduct had made him ill. He
chew the curtains closer, and pulled up the clothes
over his night-cap.

This was all very well ; but how was Government
to be conducted? Was Mr. Spencer Percival to
understand that no change was to be made at
present ? No reply, except a volley of groans from
the bed. His Royal Highness must be kept quiet, or
fever would supervene. Would Mr. Percival be good
enough to go away, and tell the major domo to put
down straw and tie up the knocker ? Ministers were
no more able to reach the patient than their adversaries.
Messages were received by Sheridan when
sufficiently sober, by Vere, or Brummel, or Cribbb, or
To-^-nshend the constable, or others of the smaller
fry who might chance to be about. The only persons
with whom the Piegent would hold direct communication
were the companions of festive hours. Periodically
he rose and donned his stays and a plain frock,
and took his griefs in a yellow chariot, and poured
them in my lady's lap ; but on his way to Hertford
House he invariably drew down the blinds, and
declined to be stared at by a soul.

The end of the year 1811 found things in much the

same state as the beginning— inextricably tangled —
while affairs abroad appeared even more menacing.
In spite of the energy of Wellington, tie subjugation
of eastern Spain seemed to presage the concentration
of an overwhelming force against the British cohorts
in the west ; and, should these be routed, nothing
remained from the Vistula to the Pillars of Hercules
capable of resisting the Corsican. Was England,
after a dauntless display of courage, to hold out her
wrists for the handcuffs ? It seemed so. Meanwhile,
the equally disappointing conflict dragged on
its length at home, through summer, autumn, winter,
between Tories on the brink and Whigs struggling
up the precipice; while the Kegent awaited the impossible,
and embarrassments increased throughout
the land. The reputation of Prince and ministry
sank to zero. Riotous demonstrations became common
in the manufacturing districts ; pinching poverty and
growing distress prevailed among the labouring
classes; taxation, which, owing to a succession of
campaigns, was already heavy, became unbearable ;
an alarming derangement in the currency carried
havoc in pecuniary transactions. Demagogues seized
every item to inflame the public mind. With the
dawn of 1812, the Regent found himself compelled,
amid a shower of curses, to untie the knocker and
attend to business ; and, undecided still, dissatisfied
with both parties, he took refuge in a middle course.

and modified the existing Cabinet. My lady said,
*' Bravo ! but why could you not do it before ? " The
Whigs, in a passion, threatened to espouse in a body
the cause of the Dreadful Woman, and bring her to the
front again. Would not that be a splendid way of
punishing the Prince, whose perfidy was shocking ?
What could be the meaning of the proceedings at
Carlton House ? Lord Castlereagh was actually bidden
to return to his duties, vice Wellesley deposed. Lord
Castlereagh was a friend of the Hertfordss. Were
these horrid people to rule the roast ? The period of
restriction was coming to an end, and it seemed likely
that, free to do as he liked, the Regent would be guilty
of the unmentionable sin of openly avowing himself
a Tory ! Would the indecent creature rat ? Oh no.
Crafty and dissimulating, perhaps, but not so base
and abandoned. 'Twas a ruse to gain time, for
politicians of all hues passed under the classic
colonnade. But some people are capable of anything.
The spirits of Opposition had risen only to be dashed.
On the 12th of January, 1812 — date for respectable
-cits to don mourning — Mr. Percival stood up in his
place, and announced that he was authorized to
reorganize the Cabinet. He addressed the House as
its master, prated of the hopeless condition of the
King, recommended a permanent rearrangement of the
royal household, establishing it at one hundred and
eighty thousand pounds per annum, with an additional

grant to the Regent of one hundred thousand pounds
cover the expenses of the year. A mere bagatelle,
while men and women starved ! Who but a Tory
could be so unblushing ? During the passing of the
Bill, the minister was bitterly reviled for such extravagances;
but having a game to play, he played
it, heedless of the execration which was freely poured
both on Prince and self. It is sad to have to relate
that, even after going such lengths rather than lose
office, the Regent remained displeased. What about
that millstone? What of the Dreadful Woman?'
Why not have gone straight to the country ? " ho
grumbled. *' I am still deep in debt, because on that
former occasion my father broke his word and did not
set me free. Remove my millstone once for all, and
I will keep straight." But as far as that Percival dared
not venture, any more than his rivals. By-and-by,
perchance, when the trumpet's blare should give place
to piping peace ; not now. So all parties floundered,
gazing wistfully for daylight through a fog; and
his Royal Highness, disgusted with everybody, him-see
included, drew the curtains again, and withdrew
between the sheets.

CHAPTER VIII.

BRIGHTON.

The people might suffer and the Prince of Wales feign
illness, cumuli of danger abroad and misery at home
might gather, yet the Court of the Regency was
dazzlingly gay. To all intents and purposes, his
Royal Highness became King in the early part of 1812,
and to a great bashaw who loved externals it became
urgently necessary to display his grandeur. Alack!
We may no longer call him Florizel, the beautiful,
radiant, royal boy ! Stays will, no doubt, do much,
but chins will double ; crow's-feet and wrinkles mara
peaches cheek. No one but her papa forgot the
existence of that great obtrusive, bouncing girl in the
nursery. A youth in his own esteem, to the world
he was a Grand Signor, ponderous, rotund, and handsome,
but out of his teens some sears since. Though
the millstone remained about his neck, the days of
empty pockets were gone, as far as he was concerned,
for the time being. Never was minister more pliable
than Percival, who, instead of checking his liege lord's

luxurious propensities, doled forth dribbling supplies
that just sufficed to keep his mouth above the water.
He had guineas now, ay, even banknotes now and
then ; and fingers might have been snapped at Care,
but for the vengeful growling of disappointed Whigs
and the diplomacy of the temporizing Premier. The
Regent was so very unpopular in 1812 that the golden
saloons and Gothic cathedrals of Carlton House lost
their charm. Moreover, that elysium was so perfect
that the most fastidious eye found little improvement
to suggest. To one who was a captive to the enthral-meets
of bricks and mortar, the creation of a marine
paradise offered irresistible attractions for the display
of a refined taste. In middle life it is hard to adapt
one's self to new duties. How could Prince George,
who had been repressed in youth, take kindly now to
toils of statecraft? Periods of transition, too, are
desperately trying. Did not blameless Louis XVI.
fall a victim to times that were out of joint ? It is
not fair to judge our ancestors who used horn-lanterns
hy the glare of the electric light. George was a scapegrace,
but no worse than others whom now we
venerate. His and that of his cronies was the licence
of an elder regime wherein the animal was allowed to
prowl by daylight, whereas we keep ours in the dark.
I take it that both beasts, being of the same breed, roar
in much the same fashion, one with a muzzle on less
audibly. I am afraid that we who pretend superiority

have added two deities to our Olympus, full enough
before, whom our rough, hearty progenitors scorned to
worship — the gods of Humbug and of Cant. We
must remember that in times of reaction minor offences
are depicted in their worst light, and that at this
particular moment public opinion was excessively
severe. Secret societies where springing into existence,
which aimed at doing for England by means of
temporary anarchy that which was already done
across the Channel. While the fevered thirst for
change at any cost disturbed the lower class, the
upper stratum remained in sneering static quo. The
middle-aged nobility — coarse in manner, loose inhabit
as their fathers were — offered a large bull's-eye
to the shafts of invective, and were rather inclined by
shrieks of demagogues to offer a defiant and scornful
front than to bend before the blast. Burnett and
other mountebanks worked on people's hearts rather
than on their heads, appealed to warmth of feeling
rather than to calm judgment.

This was the moment chosen by faithless Mary
Anne to come into court again and rake up half-buried
scandals ; but, for a change, instead of washing
royal linen she made an edifying display of her own.
When villains fall out, a foul aroma riseth heavenwards.
The conspirators in the York plot quarrelled,
wrote pamphlets showing up each other, belched forth
brimstone disclosures, raised a vile stench. *' Peccavi ! "

cried Mary Anne. "I have been unrighteous, even
dissolute and scampish, not to say Stygian and
Satanic ; but I repent and make confession. I told
fibs, yea, even in the witness-box, to the detriment of
innocents, and am a bad, perjured girl. The Duke
never listened to my prattle. It was for loaves and
fishes — they were so scarce on the establishment —
that I made believe to procure commissions, and wrote
notes in my lover's pocket-book, which he thought
were in his own handwriting." Oh, Mary Anne, Mary
Anne, thou wert indeed a cunning brazen slut ! It
transpired that Wardle the patriot had failed to pay
the sum for which she engaged to perjure herself ; so,
regardless of her own character, determined to be
revenged on him, she appeared in her real colours.
Exit patriot Wardle from the stage, pursued by hoots
and hisses. George was delighted, of course, at this
somewhat tardy denouement for he loved brother
scapegrace, and hastened as soon as might be to
reinstate him in his abdicated command.

So " good " Sting George went into earthly limbo,
and the Regent occupied the throne. He was his own
master now — too late. His habits at the age of forty-nine
were too firmly fixed to improve with better days.
Having occupied his mind so long with the construction
of Gothic halls and strange pagodas, he found it
painful to be pulled by the toe out of a snug bed ; and
there is no knowing how he would have endured the

tugs of frantic statesmen, but for the friend who lived
at Hertford House. To him her boudoir was a haven
of rest, where responsibilities could be shuffled off.
Who so helpful as she, who, instead of abusing other
women, delivered lectures on affairs, and defended the
mistakes of weak-kneed Percival? Yarmouth, also,
it was a pleasure to meet ; for he kept within due
bounds, inherited the talents of his mother, and was,
moreover, of a sentimental turn that was not devoid of
interest. He had a whimsical habit of inditing love-notes
at the breakfast-table with his mouth full of
muffin and partridge, in which he took the constellations
of the universe to witness that he was dying of
galloping decline — victim of feminine cruelty.

But while we gossip with senile prosiness, his Royal
Highness has rushed off in the yellow chariot, the
blinds drawn down, with his mind made up of its own
accord for once. My lady brews a dish of tea, and he
announces to her and Yarmouth, as he adjusts the
•cm-Is of his wig, that he is about to turn over a new
leaf. Patience doesn't answer. He is weary of being
chafed by the scum that rises when a nation boils.
He objects to being nicknamed " Squab ; " considers
the caricatures in the print shops offensive, for they
make him fat and old, whereas he is nothing of the
sort. Some day he will die, and then folks Avill realize
the extent of their loss, and regret ingratitude ;
meanwhile, till the lieges learn better ways, he will

retire to the Pavilion, flee from boring Percival,
employ a culm-ed leisure in the erection of Chinese
marvels. What does my lady say, and Yarmouth?
What says Colonies, whose taste is so refined ? Will
he come and help? He is a connoisseur in art
matters, and the change will do him good. Such
josses ; such pagodas ! My lord Hertford's assistance
will be invaluable, for there is naught he doth not
understand. Painting, cock-fighting, cooking, fencing ;
profligacy or morals ; languages alive or dead ;
Burgundy or black strap ; the flavour of venison or
the breeding of poll-parrots ; the society of a bishop
or a scullery-maid; — nothing comes amiss to hi
well-oiled tongue. My lady likes Brighton, so does
Yarmouth, so does Hertford. Brighton by all means.
Directing minds being of one accord, the court is
ordered to prepare for a move, and vast are the
needful preparations.

Among other noble mansions, Osmington House
was turned inside out and upside down, for the master
when he moves must take with him his menagerie of
male and female animals, whose transport requires
a caravan. When Noah emptied the Ark, what a fuss
there must have been ! what a cackling and screaming,
what a flurry and stampede ! Pepita and Ildefonza
declared that they would rather perish than show
upon the Steine without new gowns, hats, pelisses.
Did my lord wish them to be disgraced for ever?

The stake or rack were preferable. Isabel's bracelets
wanted resetting ; Jemima's laces left much to be
desired. My lord applied the Balmy-Brutal with
effect. Like a squib, he fizzed a little, then blew up
and burst into a coruscation of epithets. What did
they take him for ? Dash, dash ! Money ! There was
none just now. They must wear old hats and dresses,
or be left behind. Torrents of lamentation. The
prospect was indeed appalling ; his decision worthy of
a savage. The belligerents agreed to a compromise.
*' Write to the agent at Battle Magna," he said to
Mr. Smalley, who was in attendance ; " he's a drone.
The household may be an army, but armies must be
clothed and fed. Trees must go. Birnam Wood
must come to Dunsinane. Write, Master Cy, and
call me at four. A man must sleep, and I sleep
slow."

Obedient Cyrus returned in the afternoon and
knocked, and was ordered by my lord, as he staggered
to his feet, to examine the multitude of letters, which
lay in an ominous heap. " Never mind the duns,"
hiccupped his patron, as, steadying himself with a
shaky hand, he drank a jorum of Capelle. " Pick
out the scented billets, donkey ! The covers that are
franked and stamped with a coat of arms. Damn the
duns ! They ought to be pleasing to Heaven, for they
increase and multiply. There's a drawerful already
of their precious twaddle."

VOL. I. 12

What a clatter in the street when the caravan is
at length equipped ! What a train of chariots from
which peep raddled faces ! What a string of baggage-waggons,
full of plate and frying-pans; whiskies,
curricles, sumpter horses, what not ! Sure my lord
must be going to the antipodes with all his household
gods ; or is it an ambulating circus ? Fig, the head-groom,
commands the van, and by his side rides Juan
Rodriguez, the Spanish factotum, smoking a cigar,
whiskers en papillottes. A coach and four spanking
bays are to convey my lord, who climbs upon the box,
where Abigel is already seated, and, clad in a horsey
coat of faintest lavender, takes the whip and ribbands.
Hamlet, the jeweller, tired of dawdling in antechambers,
and being politely shown the door, tries
hard to reach his lordship ; but the latter is too quick
for him, although he looks so willowy. " Clear the
road ! " he bawls, and cracks his whip. ** Ease that
wheeler's collar ; no, never mind. Dash, dash ! Out
of the way. Sit steady, girl. Yep, yep, my beauties,
off you go ! " And off they are indeed, in clouds of
dust, swinging round corners at the rate of twelve
miles an hour, tearing along the highway, scattering
Pedestrians, as if the devil were behind.

The Brighton season at this period always began in
May and ended in September.

The blood dances in the veins of fearless Abigel as
the warm breeze fans her cheeks and the turnpikes

seem to fly. The Cock at Sutton is doing a roaring
trade, for there are no less than twenty-eight public
coaches on the road, to say nothing of private vehicles.
Jackson, the bruiser, who married the buxom landlady,
hurries hither and thither w^itli cooling drinks, finding
a moment to shake hands with Cyrus and ask after
Thomas Cribbb. The best of Hquor is Jackson's, for
he's hand and glove with the smugglers. " Yep, yep,
off again ! " Horsecloths are snatched away by nimble
ostler ; the groom too-toots upon his bugle. Off she is !
Steady, my beauties, down this hill." There's Miss
Real at the door of the Tangier with a glass of elderberry
wine — she's always there — and rabbit puddings
all piping smoking hot. On again. Blest if there isn't
the Quicksilver upset, the passengers scattered in the
road, while the guards in red and gold rush to the
horses' heads. Out of the way ! " Dash, dash ! yep,
yep ! " My lord must pass. Pick up the fragments
afterwards. Dear heart, what pleasant travelling,
what stirring incidents, what betting, what excitement
! Yonder are the fast coaches, that boast they
can do the journey and return in a single day. My
lord will race them ; is open to any odds. There's
the Alert with its yellow wheels, the Comet, the
Irresistible, driven each by an amateur who touches
his hat to his passengers for half a crown, although
he is worth a plum. Sir Vincent Cotton tools the
Rocket, my lord Compel the Dart, and he is a shrewd

fellow who can guess they are not in the trade.
Yonder's Mr. Akers, vice-chairman of the Four-in-hand
Club ; but he'll be ruined very soon, and will
take to the road as a profession. Nor will he blush
for that. Why should he ? The driver of the stage
is a most important person, let me remind you. Half
the business of the county passes through his hands,
and the satisfying of hundreds of appetites upon his
fiat. At Legate, where they dine — the roads through
Lewes or Fordham are voted vulgar — the sly but civil
waiter loads the board, then says with an obliging
smirk, " You've got just three minutes to eat, for the
coachman is putting to." Three minutes ! What's
to be done that time maybe gained for dinner? A
tumbler of sherry mollifies the whip, and an opportune
shower of shillings makes him placable. Then hey
for the road, and here's the health of the driver ! My
lord has long distanced th caravan, which will arrive
in detachments during the night— Pepita hungry and
rude, Ildefonza querulous, Chiquita and Isabel thirsty
and blaspheming. It is well to escape their plaints,
but a pause must be made somewhere that Cyrus and
the Spanish valet may get ahead and see that all's
ready for their master. An hour may be passed
agreeably at Stupefied, where Abigel from her seat
may pluck unripe cherries, while my lord inaugurates
a maggot-race and loses ten guineas to the rustics.
At Hand-Cross, too, they may linger for a moment.

exchanging jokes with the publican, who suggests a
glass of gin and a slice of spiced gingerbread.

It is dusk by the time they rattle into Castle Square.
The weathercock on the roof of the Old Blue coach
office is scarcely visible. But the Steine is full of
movement, and Abigel leans out of her window opposite
Eaggat's Club, where dice eternally rattle, and gazes
at Mrs. Fitzherbert, who dwells across the green.
Beautiful sad lady, recluse amid the vortex of bellowing
fashion, how regal she looks as on her spacious
balcony she moves to and fro, lighting an array of
candles. How Abby would like to know her ! Sure
'twould please the Prince. But what of my lord?
Mrs. Fitzherbert never liked my lord, although she
put up with him for George's sake. Would she renew
acquaintance ? Hardly ; for she shuns the world,
living alone for the present with her niece, whose
education occupies her hours.

The theatre has just closed — it is over early, as
none of the few streets can boast of lamps — and the
ton enjoy the air upon the Steine, although it is poor
as a promenade. A circular path of bricks keeps
ladies' feet out of the mud ; but the centre is rough
and unkempt, with ugly mushroom rings, and nets
hung out to dry. There's a band, which is an attraction,
and the belles and beaux are walking. The
Grand Signer may be perceived stretching bis limbs
after his journey upon the Pavilion lawn ; the marlborough,

on the steps of Marlborough House, admire
the turmoil from within green wooden palings ; and
Mrs. Fitzherbert is just receiving a small knot of
intimates, with the help of pretty Miss Seymour. It
is vastly fashionable, though the company on the brick
walk may hardly be called select. Beaux sigh for a
second, as they think of their comrades — such bloods
last season — exiled now to France, or languishing in
the King's Bench, as they themselves may soon be ;
and then they turn to quiz young wives through
gold-rimmed glasses or bandy words with a desire.
"Ah, my lady Betty's looking charmingly — like Venus,
she has risen from the waves ! " And then they
mark how many a hoyden miss, who tripped last
season in a beehive hat and ringlet-locks to waist,
now sports a dozen tiers of flounces at the least;
while her head is lost under a martello tower, be-flowered
like a walking greenhouse. Fiddlers, dancing
masters, tooth-drawers, elbow each other on the
Steine ; army and navy contractors, who've been
knighted ; clippers of soldiers' coats ; destroyers of
the stomach's ditto ; all classes meet cheek by jowl,
from noble duke to pig-merchant. Ambling coquettes
are there, who have assumed the shabby genteel,
to draw the attention of whom it may concern to
^'les beaux restes d'une vertu chancelente ; '' acknowledged
Cyprians ; powdered, bewhiskered, padded
militaires, whose curls have been whitened and

pomatum by Pollard. Russet-wigged tradesmen,
fortune-hunters, and hunted fortunes pass and repass
in the gloaming Hke figures in the Fantoccini. Sea-fencible,
in smart uniforms, pretend to be longing
for invasion ; while the clatter of trinket auctions
disturbs the card-players in the libraries, who are
deep in pam or loo, to the strains of harps and
violins. But, good lack, this uproar's nothing to that
which will prevail in the morning ! How fond of beer
folks are in this droughty ocean air ! There's an inn
to every thirty houses, and scarce a door where you
might not obtain a drop by knocking, while waiting
your turn to be dipped by honest Martha Gun.
Brighton teems with tippling-houses, from Belle Vue
fields, with its crazy arch and capstan (Regency
Square now occupies its place), to the distant Level,
where the soldiers exercise. Every bird and beast in
all creation seems pictorially present to the view,
swinging from rusty irons. There's the Cat and
Wheel, the Greyhound, Dolphin, White Horse, Black
Lion, Spotted Dog, Hen and Chickens, Phoenix, Eagle,
Unicorn — a garden of zoology — and, modestly retiring
from the sea landwards, there's the Rising Sun and
King and Queen. This last is kept by a loyal
sergeant of Hussars, who has made a cunning hole in
his back wall that looks on the barrack-yard, through
which, upon a mystic signal, beer may flow in rivers.
The boozing-kens for gentlefolk are the Castle and

the Ship, and between them there is a wholesome
rivaby. The Castle, standing close to the Pavilion,
enjoys royal patronage. Mr. Sherwood can boast of
magnificent saloons, in which princes have often
feasted; the great Mr. Brummel himself w411 drive
often to the door, and, ordering the best rooms, best
dinner, and best Lafitte, be sure not to meet with
disappointment. But Mr. Hicks's Ship, being centralis
the resort of many fashionable visitors ; and it has
been amicably arranged between the rivals, that each
shall occupy three nights per week with entertainments,
leaving the remaining three open to the other.
On Sunday, there is always tea and promenade at
the Castle, under direction of the Mac., where, in
the fine ball-room, for half a crown, you walk and
talk, and, on ringing of a bell, sit down to tea and
toast; then walk and talk again. The guests at
the Pavilion usually, I grieve to say, sit down to
cards : but, after all, perhaps, they are no worse than
their neighbours ; for it is awful to think of the
spiteful things that must have been said, the venomous
tittle-tattle that must have been bandied, during those
protracted hours of incessant walk and talk.

At Brighton all classes meet upon a common ground,
and their vices are of much the same complexion.
The City belles, possessing no country seat, burning
to ape their betters in fashion and folly and a prevailing
passion for notoriety, fly eagerly to the queen

of watering-places, and boldly launch themselves
upon the glowing river of high life. Though clever in
their trades, they are conspicuous for lack of learning,
and become an easy prey to the marching army of
impostors, who, like sharks, follow in their wake.
The place teems with Irish fortune-hunters — good-looking
men, who possess one suit of clothes whereinto
frequent theatres, masquerades, and public walks,
and beguile some heiress, by a strict attention to
business, into a trip to Gretna Green. The elite of
rank visit Brighton because the Prince of Wales goes
there, because the country is dull, because amusement
is a necessary of life. Where could a more ever-varying
change be found than at Brighton ? In the
morning a dip, a ride or walk, a turn in a pleasure-boat,
a lounge at the library to con the last wicked
novel, listen to the last prurient tale. Later on, the
play; then the parade, where, under cover of the
dark, modish rakes and impudent voluptuaries can
arrange to batten on new pastures ; then the ball,
where half-clad maidens practise wanton dances,
displaying their forms through thinnest gauze, with
the aid of the cymbals or the skipping-rope. Certainly
the costume, or rather want of costume,
patronized at this period by the fair is as hideous
as indecent. A reason for its ugliness may be found
in the fact that English women have long been
secluded by war from foreign modes, and, devoid of

taste, have invented eccentricities of their own.
Straight pelisses are worn of many hues. A body
and skirt must never match in colour. Summer and
winter alike, they clothe themselves in scanty bags of
cobweb texture. In winter, they assume a muff and
tippet or long boa, which comforts are rendered useless
by the unseasonableness of the remainder of their
garb ; for, while the hand and neck may be warm,
the rest of the body is half-naked. The meagre folds
of drapery are arranged so as to conceal as little as
may be. They have a practice, which is not pretty, of
wearing purses in their bosoms and bags at their
sides, instead of pockets. They cut off their own
hair, and don wigs of various shades. One lady of
quality actually left her wig at Laurence's, rather
than be troubled to sit to the painter for the portrait
of her head. As dress and manners are, there is no
knowing virgins from women of the town ; for men
profess to detest prudes, preferring those whose freedom
of mien declares a mind disposed to gaiety ; and,
of course, the fair respond to the demand rather than
become old maids. The parasol and veil have been
ingeniously contrived to speak a language, and inexpert
hands become attractive and dangerous implements.
Some ladies attend the parade every day at
Hove to ogle the officers, attired in tight blue habits,
broidered spencers, and regulation stable-caps of fur,
with a gold border, and afterwards join the mess, and
hobnob with the military.

It is striking twelve, and the great bell is ringing
for public breakfast in the Grove. In sooth, his Royal
Highness may well prefer Brighton to London; for
people are glad to see him here, and the announcement
of his name in connection with some entertainment
is sure to draw a crowd. The Steine, if useful
as a promenade, is treeless — open to all the vulgar mob
who may choose to jostle the elite ; whereas the Grove,
with its rows of noble elms, its rookery, its cool and
umbrageous nooks and velvet turf, offers a secluded
rendezvous for blue-blooded scandal-mongers. There
is always something going on to while away the hours
pony races, concerts, fireworks, peep-shows ; but of
all the numerous delights, the pleasantness is public
breakfast. Long tables are spread upon the Rutland
"Walk, under the sweeping boughs ; friends make up
parties, and sit together in groups ; whilst boys, concealed
amid the foliage, warble a glee of Pur cell's or
the "Friar of Orders Grey." The entertainment is
inexpensive, too; for a morning repast is provided,
consisting of fruits, meats, jellies, with tea, coffee,
and chocolate, all for the modest sum of eighteen-pence
; and the noblest in the land are not above
partaking of the fare, and joining in the innocent
recreation. 'all that's bright must fade," the poet
tells us, and the mornings in the Grove are doomed.

This is the last season ; for Ahab covets Naboth's
vineyard, and is about to join it to the grounds of the

Pavilion, and shut the public out. The dancing-room,
the cottage where we drink syllabub, the reading-lounge,
are shortly to be swept away ; but, like victims
for the sacrifice, are lavishly adorned this season
with leafy ornaments and elegant transparencies and
mottoes. " Long live the Prince ! " appears at the
end of the crossways, artfully limned by Mr. Cripps,
and wreathed with woodbine and lilies ; *' Bright-headstone's
support " glares from the other end,
encircled by oak and acorns. It is vastly pretty, and
the higher-class public will not regret the addition of
this garden to the Pavilion ; for, of course, they will
be asked to the Kegent's parties, and obtain their
jellies gratis.

For reasons with which we are familiar, his Royal
Highness vacated the metropolis, and travelled down
with jovial Frederick in a phaeton, drawn by three
horses, a postillion riding one, while he himself
managed the other two ; and fashionable London
followed its liege lord. Mr. Sheridan and Alvanley
put up at the Pavilion, as did likewise my lord
Yarmouth and his parents, while the rest of the
world perched where it could. The incorrigibly
jocose Alvanley, while he tied his neckcloth in his
dark bedroom, hummed a refrain and improvised
doggerel verses. He sang —

The Folly at Brighton is drilled round with holes ;
Teapots, extinguishers, are stuck upon poles.

The inside, all tea-things and dragons and bells ;'
The show-rooms all tinsel, the sleeping-rooms cells.
But the grand curiosity that is to be seen
Is the owner himself, our dear mandarin-patron
of painters, who copy designs
That grocers and tea-dealers hang up for signs.
Thus seaboard-taste artists gain pelf and distinction
And the title of " Teapot " shall last to extinction.
Behold his great chair into which he falls — loss —
And sits in his china shop like a large Joss ;
His parvenus round him in tea-tray array,
His peahens about him to render him gay."

Alvanley might have grown indiscreet in his poetic
frenzy, but at this juncture the valet fortunately
entered. He announced that the Regent was gone to
the Grove to breakfast with my lord and my lady
Hertford, and had begged that he would follow before
the toast was cold.

As Alvanley passed the Castle Tavern on his way to
join his royal master, he was well-nigh run over by
a coach drawTi by four splendid romans. " Curse the
careless wretch ! " he was beginning ; but anger
turned to welcome. " Why, Brummel, is it you ?
Since when have you taken to drive a team, and why
do you trample on your friends ? "

*' Beg pardon," answered the beau, with imperturbable
calm ; " obliged to tool four now, for my
fellow Eobinson gave me warning for making him
travel with a pair. Isn't that so, Eobinson ? "

Yes, sir," acknowledged that worthy with fine
disdain.

That green Benjamin of yours is not so bad.
Who suffers?"

Stultz, poor man ! " replied the other, delighted
in spite of himself at the approval of the censor.

Hem ! Weston or Schweitzer are less objectionable.
Should have come down yesterday, but for difficulties
with my tradesmen— the banker fellows, you know.
London empty last night — passed an evening of
purgatory. A set of second-waters invaded the bow-window
at White's — absolutely true. Ton my soul,
never saw anything so impossible ! They're not wellborn,
or rich, or good-looking, or clever, or agreeable
only insolent. They hate and abuse everybody,
are too grand to laugh, have appalling appetites and
no digestion. Swore and used stable slang in the
most vulgar way, and after dinner, I am glad to say,
fell in a heap under the table."

"Do you mean you dined with them?" inquired
Alvanley, amused by the beau's disgust at the
phantoms of his own creation.

Hardly," returned the other, with raised eyebrows.
Couldn't be seen in the same room with 'em. Not
gentlemen."

Ah ! " laughed Alvanley, " there's a poser. What's
a gentleman ? "

Brummel flicked the wheeler's ear with his whip,
and, after a pause, turned languidly to his valet.
*' Robinson, what is a gentleman ? "

The valet knitted his brows. *' I should say, sir,
one who don't gain his livelihood."

Not bad," said Alvanley, with a roguish look at
his friend. '' I should say, one whose necktie is
irreproachable."

No," dissented Brummel, sighing. " Eobinson
here can manage that, as well as I, after long teaching.
A gentleman, I think, is a man with polished
manners, who keeps his hands out of his pockets, and
never commits himself in conversation."

The beau's beautiful horses had drawn around them
an admiring circle. People stood at their doors to
marvel at his curly hat and coat of plum-colour. A
fat lady on a balcony overhead hemmed and sniffed,
trying hard to attract his attention, and at last called
out, "Welcome to Brighton, Mr. Brummel. Won't
you step up for a bil; ? Do now ! "

The beau turned his head coldly, and gazed with
inquiry at Eobinson, who in turn gazed at his master.
Sure the woman must be demented. She was not
going to lose her opportunity, however. The admiring
crowd should know that, though a City lady, she was
on speaking terms with the great man, and so she
shouted again, " Do come up and take a dish of tea."
The second-rate dandies were offensive enough ; these
City ladies worse. A gleam of mischief shone in the
small grey eyes, as Brummel stared upwards and
remarked, in crystal accents, " Madam, you take

medicine, and you take a liberty, but you drink tea ; "
and, flicking up bis horses, drove off into the stable-yard.


At the Grove, whither he sauntered presently, the
royal party were assembled under an elm, breakfasting
a few yards away from the common table. My lady
Hertford wore a crimson velvet pelisse edged with
swansdown, a white beaver hat with plume of ostrich
feathers, and low shoes of gold tissue — a chaste and
elegant ensemble for the morning, which was speedily
reproduced by several less august ladies upon the
promenade. Abigel was in plain white, with a tiny
orange cap set jauntily upon her crisp ringlets. Miss
Eowe was improving a vue d'oeil; had fallen into
modish ways, as if to the manner born ; had learned
quite naturally to loll in bed till midday, as a fashionable
damsel should, perusing a novel over a dish of
chocolate. She could gossip with becoming languor
about the latest ballet ; lisp careless criticisms and
gabble politics ; descant with fluency about the pathos
of Siddons, the humour of Munden, the vivacity of
Lewis, the drollery of Bannister and Jordan and
Mellon ; or glibly discuss the simple muse of Cowper,
the descriptions of the horrific Radcliffe, the morality
of Hannah More. Everybody was delighted with her
even Brummel — and Sheridan vowed she was Lady
Teazle to the life. Her worldliness at this juncture
quite astonished — not to say dismayed — the Princess

Charlotte, ^vho, mewed up at the Lower Lodge, could
not boast of such complete accomplishments. The
old daj-s in the woods at Battle Magna seemed like
an echo of some previous existence. Sure she was
born to purple and fine linen ; had not been recently
adopted. But then there was cousin Cy, the pugilist
and hanger-on, whose presence, like that of the slave
at a Woman triumph, seemed to whisper, "Eemember
the past and shun conceit, for j^ou are a daughter of
the people." What of that? If her great-aunt was
a housekeeper, Brummel's grand-dad was a lackey.
She had done so well, and could hold her own so
capitally among aristocratic maids, that Madam Pentecost
could not be otherwise than satisfied that the
incubus would never retm-n to her. Abigel herself
was under the same impression, for Lord Osmington
behaved as a father might, and there was no question
between them of the future. Taking a leaf out of his
book, her treatment of my lord was quite in the
Balmy-Brutal style ; for she domineered over him and
ordered him about, and if he showed signs of disobedience,
frowned and stamped. Then he would be
mightily tickled by the little termagant, and say,
That's right ! Though you are a lovely vixen, 'tis
wise to remember that the empire of women has
naught to do with beauty. Many an ugly woman has
reigned supreme and long ; for beauty fades, but ill-temper
is perennial. Cultivate ill-temper, my love,

VOL. I. 13

since the bravest men quail before it, and are subdued."
Her wrath was like summer lightning, and amused the
coterie, who laid traps to draw her out. She lectured
the Prince of Wales, taking him roundly to task with
solemn wisdom ; whereupon he made violent love to
her, and then she flew in a passion. Somehow it was
distasteful to Miss Kowe that Charlotte's papa, whom,
with girlish enthusiasm, she so admired, should sigh
in her ear and breathe out his flame. 'Twas as if the
idol before whom we were kneeling should suddenly
descend and stand on our own level. She would be
so provoked sometimes as to clench her fist and say
something severe, and then Lord Osmington would
veer round and rebuke the angry maiden. Lady
Hertford took the damsel's part, explaining to the
gentlemen that a girl in so odd a position was obliged
to be particularly careful, and that my lord, if he meant
honourably towards her, should assist his 'protegee
rather than add difficulties to the role he had given
her to play. " Do you mean to marry her, or what ?"
my lady asked point-blank ; upon which my lord looked
puzzled, and vowed he did not know. '' She's as
good as gold, so you mustn't do her wrong ! " my lady
said, with a warning finger. 'you've given her the
tastes and taught her the acquirements of our set,
so you'll have to see that she doesn't come to shipwreck.
Education is a snare sometimes ; teaches us
to accept any amount of falsities which, in our limited

circle, are taken for current coin. In Sumatra people
eat their parents when they are old and useless, and
the victims prepare themselves willingly for sacrifice ;
for they've been brought up to look on it as right, and
stifle natural instinct. The education you've given
her is false, fitted only to our sphere. I don't know
what would happen to the child, if obliged to return
to the country." The matron need not have been
anxious, for Abigel's fine-ladyisms were only skin-deep.
Under the veneer she was much what she used
to be, quite capable of standing alone. Able too,
apparently, to fight other people's battles, for she
ventured more than once to tell his Royal Highness
openly that Charlotte's complaints were just, that she
ought to be removed from the nursery. At this
breakfast-party, she laid on the Regent's plate a letter,
wherein Charlotte related that she had been to the
Opera and enjoyed the unusual treat. Papa pushed
it aside with pettish movement, and told her friend
that it was Charlotte's own fault if she were kept
back. '' When she is allowed to appear," he said,
she does it as an ill-mannered, turbulent tom-boy,
who is led by her horrid mother. What must she doat
this very performance, but lay herself out to vex
me ? Did she not choose the public opportunity to
rise and kiss her hand to Grey and Grenville, whom
she knows that I dislike ? Establish her, indeed !
Not till she grows more dutiful." Abigel looked

grave and said nothing, for indeed it was wrong of
Charlotte thus to annoy her father. Had he not,
without her naughtiness, a sufficient pack of worries ?
Even at festive Brighton, where he was appreciated,
it was difficult altogether to avoid crumpled rose-leaves.
Sheridan, pressed to give an opinion, prophesied
shocking things about Mr. Percival and his
government ; hinted that so shrewd a woman as my
lady must have strong motives of personal advantage
for giving unsound advice to the Prince. This was
deplorable bad taste on the part of Sherry, due to
a paltry jealousy ! Throw aspersions on the motives
of dear Calypso ! Why cannot people agree to jog
along without quarrelling and destroying the peace of
a menage ? My lady was furious, when she heard of
it, at the interference of the battered wreck. His day
was over ; why could he not be silent ? She pointed
out that he was going downhill as fast as misfortune
could carry him, that he grew less and less amusing
and more careless of his outward man ; begged the
Grand Signor to banish him. But this the Regent was
loth to do. It never should be said that he was
ungrateful for service rendered. The voice which had
been so potent in theatre and senate was dumb, but
the broken statesman was dear old Sherry still. My
lady was mortified and sullen, and made careful record
of every delinquency, for which the Regent was forced
to find excuse ; and the list was ever growing of the

poor fellow's peccadilloes. Only yesterday did he not
ask Lis boon companion Fred to lend him a ten-pomid
note ; and Frederick, poor soul, out at elbow always,
did he not parry the ill-timed request by stating he
had nothing in the world but a note for fifty pounds ?
Such an avowal should have ended the matter among
honourable confreres. But what did Brinsley ? He
uttered a low whistle, and stammered, *what! A
note for fifty pounds ! It's so long since I've seen
one; oh! let me look at it." Frederick, guileless as
usual, produced the paper, and Brinsley grabbed it
like a cut-purse. Now, when our cronies pick our
pockets thus, it is time to be indignant ; and the
good-natured York grew almost angry, till he reflected
that his own lines were cast now in more
pleasant places, and that it became him to show
indulgence. He was in receipt again of his emoluments,
while Sheridan was absolutely ruined. True,
his creditors showed remarkable activity on quarter-day,
and left him little cash ; but for poor Sherry
there was no quarter-day any more. The lamp of
genius was extinguished. He lived from hand to
mouth ; none but himself knew how. "When Drury
Lane was rebuilt, after the fire, he was bought out
of the concern for a sum of twenty thousand pounds,
which was annexed by clamorous harpies, and but for
his seat in Parliament would have fallen at once into
the Fleet. Mr. Kemble was manager now, who,

smarting with sores, declined to lend a sixpence*
Those who have been singed can feel for the victims
of a fire. His Grace of York pitied his old crony, but
showed him no more notes.

The Prince of Wales had other causes for dissatisfaction,
which ruffled his temper and interfered with
his internal comfort. The day had been successfully
killed at the Grove till five. On the way back to the
Pavilion he linked his arm in that of my lord Islington,
bidding his party follow, to witness a performance
of the Fantoccini, with which the remainder of daylight
was to be slain and a new appetite raised for
dinner. Vere, who seldom so transgressed, took the
opportunity to ask a favour. Would his Koyal Highness
ask his brother for a commission in a West India
regiment ? Now, what on earth could he want with
such a thing, and blank, too? If for some youth
whom he desired to benefit, why not something in the
Guards ?

*'No; that would not suit," Lord Osmington
admitted, with an effrontery that took the Prince's
breath away. " I've no secrets from you, sir. I
want to bestow it upon that superfine young gentleman
who is attached to your royal consort."

Why ? The Heir-apparent, like all the rest of the
world, had heard about Caroline's odd whim, and the
absurd pretensions of her page. The early conduct
of my lord in the matter had been cm-ious ; but why

should he all at once be so anxious to banish the
comely youth to the home of yellow fever ? He was
harmless, and wrote lovely poems.

There can't be anything in it, Vere ? " the Prince
asked, after a pause. " I mean as to his pretensions
to a peerage. And yet it looks from your singular
conduct as if 3'ou thought there might be."

No, sir," replied my lord ; " there's nothing in it,
of course ; but — damn him for his insolence ! — I'd
like to ship him across seas. The Princess Caroline
might take it into her head to make him a cause for
worry, and though nothing beyond that could come
of it; it's as well to be ready for contingencies.
"Wearing the uniform, he'd be a gentleman out there ;
and I take it he wouldn't be such a fool as to throw
away the chance."

But his Royal Highness shook his head, and remarked
with gravity, '*I don't like this, Vere. It's
too like kidnapping. I hope there isn't more than
you pretend in it. Does the upstart threaten you?
Anyhow, I beg you'll not mention the subject to my
brother ; for he must do nothing after that esclandre,
which our enemies might use as a handle."

Lord Osmington said no more, but, growing sulky
in turn, added his quota to the prevailing crossness.
However, these were trifles not worth serious consideration.
The outlook was more rosy than it used
to be. There is no high position without proportionate

drawbacks. The Premier did not satisfy the
nation — no doubt of that ; but it could not be helped.
Lady Hertford, in her strange partisanship for Mr.
Percival, actually promised in his name that, if the
Kegent would be patient, he would cautiously and
effectually tackle the millstone, as soon as circumstances
rendered possible so great a work. "Where,"
she asked, " could you find a more useful and obliging
servant ? He'll bring things comfortably shipshape ;
take my word for it." Dear mentor ! "What she
said so charmingly must be true, specially as her
hints jumped with the Kegent's own desire. Did
excellent Mr. Percival really intend to tackle that
millstone ? How soon ? Peace of mind might then
be his. He could feel a glimmer of it now, reflected
from the amber morrow. There was no gainsaying
that the minister had done much already. He provided
funds — in scribblers doubtless — but still funds.
Surely, all things considered, the Grand Signor had a
right to be jubilant, and was justified in overlooking
Sherry's shady tricks and the questionable requests
of Vere. Hopefully looking forward to the realization
of the Premier's promises, his royal master could
even afford to forget a rude print which had just
appeared, wherein " Squab " was encircled by patterns
of jaseys, with an effigy on one side of Circe and her
pigs, and Nebuchadnezzar at grass on the other. Yes ;
he felt cheerful on the whole, for no imminent

danger loomed ; was so amiably disposed as even to
allow Brummel to occupy his favourite chair, while
he discoursed sweet harmony on the violoncello,
accompanied by Secretary Bloomfield. What mattered
it that, after dinner, the gentlemen departed uproarious
; that honest folks were disturbed out of
their sleep by whoops ; that one broke his nose, another
a dozen lamps, and all of them the peace ? What
did it signify that twenty pounds' worth of dinner
glass had been demolished in the course of practical
joking ? These were details concerning which it
became not a philosopher to fret — mere trivial, floating
bubbles. Having argued himself into so angelic
and contented a frame of mind, it was mighty hard
to be wakened in the night with the news that Mr.
Percival was mm-tered.

CHAPTEK IX.

HOT WATER.

Yes ; the minister who was to accomplish wonders
was slain — done to death in the lobby of the House of
Commons by a crazy wretch named Bellingham ; and
the stream of troubles, which for a moment had been
stemmed, was let loose again with increased volume.
One of the least agreeable facts to the Prince concerning
the murder was the way in which the news was
received by the people ; for, after all, the unpopular
acts of the victim were done for his master's behoof,
and the latter was involved in the odium which was*
crusted about his name. The crowd that collected
like flies around the House when the news spread
was by no means thrilled with horror. The murderer
actually received an ovation from the mob ; while in
some towns, notably at Nottingham, parties went
about with banners and drums, exulting in the crime.
Unlucky George seemed destined never to be out of
hot water without instantly tumbling in again. The
festive time that he had promised himself at Brighton
among the teapots and extinguishers was abruptly

broken in upon ; for the tragical end of Mr. Percival,
pigmy statesman though he was, piled the weight
again upon his master's back, under which he had
groaned so dreadfully. And with whom might he
now advise ? Sheridan was a broken reed ; Brummel
and Vere complete strangers to politics ; Lady Hertford
at her wit's end, though she was still in favour
of patching up the existing Cabinet rather than inaugurate
a change. The indolent Regent would be
glad enough to do so, if it were possible : but was it ?
Had he not already been cursed and execrated for
striving, like an obedient boy, to follow in his father* s
footsteps and employ his ministers ? The people
professed to be enraged, because, instead of trying the
Whigs (who even under Fox were a failure), he had
preferred to let things proceed in their accustomed
groove. What was to be done ? Could the unseaworthy
vessel be sufficiently carpentered to proceed
upon its voyage by the addition of an additional
board or two and a new figurehead ? That, urged by
her ladyship, was the momentous query which the
perplexed Signor laid before his Chancellor. The
Whigs desisted from abuse awhile and waited, lance
in rest. Would the indecent ratter learn a lesson
from the behaviour of the people after Percival's
death ? Apparently not. Losing patience, they
denounced their lord with fiercest screeches, as
Janus-faced. Was ever jaseyed person so perfidious ?

Were ever such marvels of mendacity as corpulent
Don Juan and many-sided, drunken Leporello?
Broken indeed — retired from private life ? Not a bit
of it. Sheridan was fishing, as usual, in troubled
waters, intriguing under the rose to please his
master. The Regent was a miracle of craft, as undecided
and procrastinating as ever. Lord Wellesley
and Canning were played off against Grey and Grenville
; while the Chancellor and Lord Liverpool (erst
Hawkesbury) were posting constantly to the Pavilion.
"What business had they there? Lord Liverpool,
just think of that ! A foolish, prosy, incompetent
peer ! What could be the Regent's real intentions,
hidden, as they were, under a mountain of diplomacy ?
Why not try the Whigs ? Why lean so persistently
towards the old rickety set ? Was it that he aspired
in his own person to command its imbecility, or was
it some deep design of the Hertford woman ? On his
part, the Prince complained that he could obtain no
assistance from candidates for office ; that envy,
hatred, and malice pervaded the world of politics.
Lord Liverpool would not meet Lord Wellesley;
Castlereagh had grudges against Canning ; the Kegent
himself indulged his pet antipathy against my lords
Grey and Grenville, which unchristian feeling my
lady warmly shared. He was even heard to say that
he would rather abdicate the Eegency than accept the
heads of Opposition. Who was to take the place of

pliant Percival ? How to form a Government out of
materials which refused to combine ? My lady being
nonplussed, Sheridan was begged to suggest something,
and counselled a coalition. There were certain
of the actual ministers, he showed, whose devotion
called for gratitude ; the qualifications of two of an
earlier ministry were indubitable ; certain of the
vindictive Whigs had powerful claims for recognition.
The Whig party, however, rashly resigned their
chance at this juncture, and flung down the gauntlet
of war. Fulfilling a menace thrown out from time to
time, they made serious preparations for trotting out
the Dreadful Woman. Clamour is easily aroused by
men who are not particular as to the means whereby
they effect their ends. The case of the Kensington
martyr afforded an excellent " party cry ;" so Whit-bread,
Brougham, and subsequently Canning, brought
forth the unsuspecting stalking-horse, and employed
her grievances with the utmost ingenuity to stir up
popular ferment.

By-and-by, the truth crept out as to the reasons
for the Regent's vacillation. Men had long marvelled
as to the cause which could induce Madame
la President to cleave so staunchly to Percival.
How trivial a motive it was for resistance to a
nation's will ! An entirely new ministry would involve
a new household. Were not two members of
the existing household my lady Hertford's son and

husband? She had upheld Percival with all her
might to suit the convenience of her loved ones, and
now, for their sakes, she clung still to the cranky
vessel. Thanks to her unfading influence. Lord
Liverpool, who in general esteem was even less
desirable than the victim of Bellingham, became
Premier ; and wiseacres wagged their head, sighing out
that the Kegent was unfit for his position, that such
a scarecrow as Liverpool must fall within a month !
But the pessimists were wrong. They were blind to
the fact that the Commons would be led henceforth by
Castlereagh, a man who, when previously in office,
had been unable to work with his colleagues, but
whose acuteness in the hour of need was, in conjunction
with the astuteness of Metternich, to foil the
later combinations of the great Napoleon himself.
By his subsequent career he showed how unwise, a
few years back, had been his expulsion from the
Cabinet ; for the stability which Liverpool's administration
long enjoyed was due in the main to the
energetic perspicacity of his more distinguished
coadjutor.

It was fortunate for him, punctilious as he was
about appearances, that his Koyal Highness should
have taken, not too late in life, to the wearing of a
casey. When perpetual youth is your fondest aim
and ambition, it is well to know that, whatever anguish
you may endure in the night-watches, the polished

cocoons on the wig-block are not suffering — that they
^Yill flourish for many morrows with the same unvarying
levity of chestnut-brown and unfeeling tightness
of curl. If we allow silver marks of life's conflict
to appear on our temples and then suddenly bloom
into aggressive juvenility, acquaintances will be ribald
and laugh, and swear we look older than ever. But
if, taking Time by the forelock, we pop on while really
young an artificial thatch, we may calculate upon an
appearance which is much the same for years, whatever
the commotion in our minds.

My poor dear princely boy ! I vow I was anxious
lest he should not have been quite presentable when
they came hammering at the door about that murder !
He had had his fill of Lafitte, and too much of Weltje's
goodies, and, doting the casey, had rolled his august
cranium in a beecher handkerchief, and was composing
himself to sleep while his guests disturbed the
neighbours. He could scarcely have looked his best
without wig or stays when messengers bothered at
four a.m. with objectionable details ; while as for my
lady, she must have appeared a hundred at least,
when she flew out of her room in a fuss and a frilled
nightcap, and caught the influenza.

Oh, Florizel, beauteous youth, before whose magic
fluting a whole dovecote of prize birds had fluttered
and fallen, had you come to be the willing slave of
this mingled old cat ? Ah, well ! Florizel, prince of

fascination, is now the Grand Signor, and in the middle
of the night, upset by terror and too much wine,
looked, I dare say, quite as old as pussy. But there
was no mirror at hand ! In the morning he was as
right as nine pence; in his own eyes sans reproche.
But he could not say the same of his daughter, who,
heedless of prospective grey hau's, showed ominous
signs of developing into a bore — a nuisance like
mamma.

It came to pass that Lady de Clifford, governess,
fell ill, being only mortal. The Lower Lodge at
Windsor was a draught-trap, and so damp withal that
those who were compelled to inhabit that nunnery
were afflicted with chronic rheumatism. Lady de
Clifford resigned her post, and went home to possets
and warming-pans; and the young Princess, goaded
by her mother, indited an epistle to the Regent,
declining further thraldom.

Now, the Regent' s temper was not improved by
finding himself plunged again into troubles which
he thought were passed. In all things that concerned
Charlotte he was biassed by a suspicion —
sometimes justified and sometimes not — that she
was acting as the dupe of Caroline. He was ruffled
just now by political throes, for every soul in
the outer world was clamouring and reviling; and
the ancient adage was realized once more, that
troubles never come single. There had been a lull

from the persecution of the Dreadful Woman ; but,
stirred again to action by the spiteful "Whigs, she
launched a thunderbolt — a letter of twelve pages, demanding
impossible concessions : reception at Court,
free access at all times and seasons to Charlotte, and
so forth — a pathetic appeal, calculated to affect the
ignorant mob who wist not the truth ; an ingenious
document plausibly penned by some clever man, who,
guessing that it would remain unanswered, published
it broadcast in the papers. More scandal, more
reviling, more draining of the stock of patience.
Busy-bodies were as quick to point out as George was
to believe that the two letters, simultaneously delivered,
must spring from the same source of mischief. Was
it not known that Caroline left no stone unturned to
tempt her child to overt acts of rebellion ? She made
no disguise of it. His Royal Highness gave way to
a storm of rage. As to his wife's letter, he read it in
the newspaper, but positively declined to touch the
document itself, returning it unopened, and therefore
unanswered. To gag Caroline was beyond his strength,
but it was otherwise with a girl in her teens. What !
Was his own child, who was growing into a woman,
to pass openly under the standard of the enemy?
Caroline might squall, and Whigs deride — that could
not be helped — but the froward chit might and should
be sat upon and crushed instanter. A will of her own,
forsooth, and a desire for emancipation ! .

I. 14

waiting, and an establishment ! Not if the Kegent
knew it. Hoity, toity ! Stuff and nonsense ! Her
papa would let her know that heiress to the crown
she might be, and seventeen years old, but that she
was subject to her father while he lived, however
antique she might become. By his gods he swore that
so long as she was single she should never have an
establishment. Suspicion of the enemy at Kensington
and infinite worry rendered her parent overbearing;
he was too much teased, too furious to remember his
own youth — how he had himself suffered from parental
tyranny. Sending for my lord chancellor as a moral
support, he posted down to Windsor, burst upon the
astonished maiden like a bombshell, and rated her
like an angry nurse. She was a fool, an idiot, a saucy
jade ! My lord Eldon, anxious to propitiate the reigning
power, vowed — he was henpecked himself at home
that if his advice were taken, so perverse a minx
should be placed under lock and key. This, too, in
presence of the Queen — between whom and she there
was bitter enmity — and all her cackling aunts ; so loud
and shrill an uproar that ears of tabbies were no
doubt applied to every keyhole, eyes to every crevice.

Strange to relate, the only one of the party who
displayed any dignity was the original aggressor.
Charlotte, having recovered from her amazement,
maintained a haughty silence, which her father took
for sullenness. What she had ventured to desire was

not an extraordinary boon, she thought. At seventeen
one may surely claim a little freedom, may even
dream of balls and routs without committing sin.
If it might not be as she wished, she must e'en obey,
but she would never love her unkind papa any more
never, never, never ! and as to grumpy old granny,
she was a hateful harridan.

Everybody's milk of human kindness seemed to have
tm-ned, and Brummel, who pronounced personal abuse
to be lamentably vulgar, took up his parable and spake.
'^ It is humiliating," he said, " to trace the motives
which have resulted in the loftiest tragedy to their
first cause — the liver ! The upsetting of that organ
produces lowness of spirits and abnormal sensations
of disquiet." May not most, if not all, crimes and
atrocities, those even which have led to despair and
revenge and murder, be traced to livers out of order ?
His Royal Highness's must have been in a dreadful
state to make him storm and fume. Why not take
a pill, and administer another to Lord Eldon ?

Certain it was that the Regent had gone too far.
How should he know how to manage damsels, or Lord
Chancellor Eldon either ? Perceiving his mistake
after the first paroxysm of heat was passed, he strove
in a measure to undo what he had done, by removing
the girl from the Queen's surveillance and lodging her
near himself. Her Grace of Leeds was to succeed my
lady Clifford, with Miss Knight, an elderly blue-stocking,

and they were not to be called governesses. To
this small extent the wishes of the maiden were
complied with, but chance of future confidence was
gone. A breach was dug between father and daughter
which never might quite be filled ; and looking on the
most amiable of men as a bully, she was afraid of
him, and inclined to be sorry for her mother. Thus
did the Kegent find that he had to fight two women.
Foolhardy wight! for is not one woman more than
enough for a regiment? — and one of these, if
obstreperous, was pure and innocent, sure of the
public's suffrages.

Charlotte was duly installed at Warwick House, and,
bursting with ardour and energy and suppressed
sentiment, resigned herself as best she might to the
monotonous existence of a novice. Although papa
lived over the way, she saw little of him ; for he was
guiltily aware of the breach, and sulky, as people are
who know that they have been pushed by anger
to commit wrong acts. In his heart he was sorry ,^
but it is not the place of a parent to go humbly down
upon his knees. The baggage ought to feel for him
in his many troubles, meet him half-way, and forget
his hasty outburst. But she was his own child, with
the blood of granny flowing in her veins, and could be
hard, and cold, and proud, and extremely undutiful,
and meet him with a face of stone. He had good
cause strongly to disapprove of those visits to Kensington,

yet dared not, for fear of the outcry which would
ensue, to stop them altogether. Prejudiced as they
were, would people believe his story of a wicked wife
and naughty child? Not likely. Exploding with
resentment, he had made a lamentably false step.
Now, grown calm again, how might it be retrieved ?
The knot was too difficult for Lady Hertford to untie,
to whom he took all his knots ; moreover, that astute
person Ime better than to place a finger between
bark and tree. Dabbling in politics was one thing,
meddling with the private affairs of a maiden who
had a spu-it of her own was quite another. But she
knew that it is an ill thing for a strong-minded and
healthy maid to feed on her own heart and nurse her
grievances, and so she said, " Marry the girl as
quickly as possible ; get rid of her. Pack her off to
the Continent, where she won't meet her mother.
But, for goodness' sake, never breathe a hint that the
idea came from me." It was a good suggestion, no
doubt of it, and agreed with the feelings of the Kegent,
to whom it was naturally displeasing to have a
bouncing daughter who looked five and twenty forever
before his eyes, whose presence shouted to all
the world, " See how old my papa is, though he does
wear stays and a casey ! " Do what he would, too, it
would be impossible to delay her coming out for more
than another year, and once lance there was no
telling what harm she might do by supporting the

Dreadful Woman. If she would only throw mamma
overboard and frankly side with her father ! After
such a fracas it could not be hoped. Yes ; a husband
must be found who would bear her far away — to
Timbuctoo or Madagascar — and meanwhile she must
be severely repressed and locked within her nunnery.

What a dull existence it was that the unhappy
Princess led at Warwick House, seeing no one but
Miss Knight and her one comrade Abigel, and sometimes
her Grace of Leeds! Miss Eowe always came
thence with a feeling of suffocation. The life led by
her friend was so different from her own, in which,
petted by all, triumph succeeded triumph, while as for
coercion, she was as unshackled as a bird, tied only
by caprice with regard to her duty to her guardian.
My lord Osmington was not the man to have endured
a girl who hung about his neck and wanted to be
chaperoned. Abigel never troubled him in that way.
She was always present — a vision of freshness — to
make his tea at whatever hour he arose ; was 2>osee
as a woman of the world, who was not disturbed by
its faux pass but who, for all that, brooked no insult.
The admiration she excited flattered his vanity, but
my lord made no pretence to anything stronger than
liking. It is probable that had she dropped down dead
he would have rung the bell that the remains might
be removed — have thought of her no more ; but while
she was there, robust in health, pleasant to look at.

giving no trouble, her existence was a pleasure instead
of a responsibility, and a comfort, too, sometimes,
when he wanted a sound opinion. As he was too
genteel to believe in a future state, so was he too much
engrossed by the present to heed what might befall a
little later, even on this sublunary planet. When a
member of the Noah's Ark became too importunate,
he gave a careless order to his major-domo, and the
delinquent was instantly expelled. What became of
the creature he neither knew nor cared. And so in a
less extreme degree was it with Abigel, although she
did not revolve the question sufficiently to realize the
slight tenure whereby she held her place. He did not
choose to consider what he would eventually do with
her, and she with ingenuous trust avoided troubling
him or herself on [the subject — sufficient unto the
day, etc. She was a pretty girl who could shine at
Almack's, win an easy victory over Pe^Dita and Chieftain
a pitched battle on the rare occasions when they
met, keep the lawless bloods who frequented Osmington
House at a respectful distance, sing, dance, laugh,
make herself brilliantly agreeable. Was not that
more than enough for the time being ? Her guardian's
original intention in adopting Abigel was gracefully
to repay a debt to Madam Smalley — a debt of many
years' devotion to him and his, and lips discreetly
closed. My lord nourished no base designs upon the
girl, and would not have succeeded if he had. My

word! She possessed a faithful vassal in cousin
Cyrus, who would have stood no nonsense ; who if
assured of something underhand would have brought
his muscles to bear on the offender, however high his
rank. The playful Newfoundland puppy had developed
into a watchdog that barked warning now and then,
and ungrateful Abby laughed; for she was so self-reliant
and so utterly superior to a professional
pugilist that the notion of being looked after by him
was entertaining to a high degree.

So for the present all went well with Miss Eowe.
She reigned in the palace of the Islington, was
fretted by no cares, and was privileged to enjoy the
friendship of the heiress to the British crown. The
privilege had its penalties ; for Charlotte was full of
jeremiads, deploring her position as impossible, standing
as she did 'twixt Vice, scarce covered with a rag,
and Virtue, austerely repugnant. Mamma's gatherings
were remarkable chiefly for unbridled licence ; papa's
cronies hiccupped broad jests till 'twas time to sink
under the table in more decorous silence ; granny
was the incarnation of virtuous illness in its ugliest
shape. 'Twas singular, Abigel mused, that her dear
Prince and his sweet child should be thus at daggers
drawn. ** If you only knew how kind he is when you
rub him the right way ! A stable-boy was dismissed
last week for purloining oats ; but his Royal Highness
remembered that the lad's dead father was a faithful

servant, and forgave him straightway. And didn't he
borrow eight hundred points, at heavy interest, when
lie was very poor, and slip out, in a plain frock, to
assist an officer's widow? Rub him the right way,
Charlotte, my pet; humour his little peculiarities.
Myself — I'm fiery if crossed, and when I disobeyed,
Aunt Smalley beat me ! Eub your father the right
way." But that was just the thing that Charlotte
would not do, and she grew peevish with her confidante ;
for the latter, biassed of course, decided that while
both were wrong in their hasty anger, Charlotte was
the worst of the twain.

She was worthy of commiseration, poor Princess,
though her comfortless bed was of her own making.
Warwick House, her prison now, was a gloomy,
tumble-down habitation at the end of a cul-de-sac. The
rear of the premises abutted upon the yard of Carlton
House, with which there was communication by a
gate. Nobody came down the cul-de-sac but the butcher
and the baker and the gouty old professors. Nothing
was to be seen out of the back windows except walls
and a narrow cat-walk, wherein two sentries marched
and stray grimalkins gambolled. Here, gazing for
hour's on the edifying prospect, the girls gushed and
sighed and chattered, the younger sobbing out at
intervals, ''Oh, Abigel, you lucky thing ! Born of
the people, free to do as you list ! Who would be a
Princess immured in a living tomb ? " To which

the elder would reply, with soothing endearment,
'patience, my darling, since you won't be dutiful.
By-and-by a fairy prince will come to slay the dragons,
and emancipate the captive."

Miss Knight, the elderly blue-stocking, commiserated
the condition of her charge, venturing to expostulate
against a system that threatened to warp a vigorous
mind and sour a sweet disposition. This was how
a forward young woman of seventeen was used to
spend her day. From eleven to twelve a sub-preceptor
would read and expound a passage in the English
classics ; he would be followed by a minister of the
Swiss Church with an hour of French ; and he, again,
by Herr Riper with an hour of German. Then would
arrive a music-mistress, with instructions on the
guitar ; and then Ventura with his violin, and Vasari
with thorough bass, and some one else, who was a
Spaniard, to teach the pupil the wild manner of
playing, so much in vogue among the great. The
prospect of the perambulating cats was varied now
and then by a drive in a close carriage, with the
blinds drawn, that its occupant might not be seen
and applauded ; and the evening until bedtime would
be edifyingly employed by my lord bishop with a
discourse on politics, or a couple of hom-s with a
drawing-master. Heavens ! what an existence, without
mirth or sunlight — suggestive of bile and headache
! No wonder the girl was driven to look forward

to the shady evenings at Kensington as a relief from
duchess, although young Sapio did paddle with her
mother's hand, and Captain Manby dine in boots.

Sometimes, by way of a change, the Regent, when
specially chafed, would step across the intervening
yard, and indulge his daughter with a diatribe against
mamma. What did the odious woman mean by incendiary
letters in the newspapers ? What did she
mean by the preposterous appeal of twelve pages ?
Who wrote it for her ? Did Charlotte know ; and, if
she did, why didn't she use her influence to keep her
mother within bounds ? And so on and so forth, till
the poor maiden cried her eyes out, and moped and
became desponding. Under the grim circumstances,
we cannot blame the blue-stocking for winking at
sundry breaches of the ukase of close imprisonment.

If the weather was fine. Miss Eowe would come on
foot, and watchful Cy would volunteer his escort, and
be asked up to the drawing-room to amuse the recluse.
With the naive curiosity of one who belonged to
another hemisphere, Charlotte would listen to tales
of Cribbb, of the Sprig of Myrtle's ambitious projects,
of the impudence of the Pink of Bow. On her side,
Abigel would hearken with a tolerant smile, then,
with a contemptuous whisk, bid the narrator cease —
much as we might order in a hurdy-gurdy fi'om the
street to amuse a child, and suddenly discover that
the din was not to be end-ed. If Miss Eowe happened

to be in an angelic mood, she would delight her cousin
by allowing him to explain his theories, permit him
by posturing to exemplify the advantages of a left
arm and leg properly advanced, and even waggishly
stand up opposite, between two peals of merriment,
and assume a correct attitude. " Reserve an easy
flexion of the knee," she would say, in arch mimicry,
^' that advance and retreats maybe made the quicker ;
see that your face makes a perpendicular line with
the said knee, while the right leg, on the slant, strongly
props the body, as does a beam a wall." And then
she would break into a scrap of cymbal-dance, and
sing a snatch of song, and sit down breathless, with
a tinge of sadness, due to her cousin's calling.

Now and again Leoline would arrive from Kensington,
under cover of night, with a secret message from
mamma. And so it came about that the three comrades
of childhood came together, after a lapse of years,
at Warwick House, and wrangled and quarrelled and
made it up, as they had done in distant Yorkshire.
Though she had heard much of him from Charlotte,
Miss Eowe was overwhelmed with pleased surprise
when she looked again upon her cherished playfellow.
Was she as changed as he, she wondered, and equally
for the better ? His ardent glances seemed to say so ;
and yet they meant nothing but a poet's blarney.
How could it be otherwise, seeing how superior he
was to her, for all her education and accomplishments?

How delicate were his turns of fancy, how
beautiful his thoughts, how smooth his method of
expressing them ! Poets are horn, not made ; and
when 3'ou stand in front of one of the rare genus, you
are awed by his towering stature and your own
dwindled proportions. It was in this light that Ahigel
considered Leoline, growing timid in his presence ;
then, angry with herself for being so, breaking forth
into some whimsical esjneglerie.

Cy and Leo could get on no better now than in the
vanished days. The former disliked the page, and
the latter knew it, and was nettled. They stood on the
defensive ; while coquettish Abby fluttered between, and
Charlotte, looking out, as it were, from a barred window,
beheld a glimpse of youth. It was a never-ending
source of amusement to the Princess to mark the conduct
of the three, while Miss Knight was busy with her
tambour ; for Cy's blundering, childish instinct of distrust
developed now into fierce jealousy, and his gleeful
cousin was charmed. The young pugilist beheld the
slim proportions of the page with infinite scorn (which
Leo returned with lofty disdain), and noted with
kindling ire the undisguised admiration of his cousin.
What could she see in the affected fellow with his
stuck-up airs ? That dreamy, far-off look of contemplation
was assumed, to show how much finer he was
than his neighbours, and set off his saucer eyes.
Nobody was good enough for the jackanapes ! How

silly women are, accepting ridiculous impostors at
their own absurd valuation, while men can see through
their smirks and grimaces as if they were made of
glass ! A poet, indeed ! Pooh ! That sonnet, which
he read to the infatuated ladies with the manner of
a stage-player, was balderdash, for honest Cy could
make neither head nor tail of it. All about buttercups
and daisies and rubbish. As for Miss Knight,
who set up for being blue and was no chicken, she
ought to be ashamed of herself, squatting in rapt
attention and admiring his insight into nature.
What was a buttercup or daisy? Too common a
thing to find a place in the flower-market. Translate
the occult language of the birds and plants forsooth !
These foolish women were mad, and would turn the
fellow's head, who was conceited enough already.
cyrus quite writhed, and beheld himself, in his mind's
eye, pummelling the affected ape on the turf of
slaughter at Moulsey ; but then he checked his wrath,
for indeed 'tis unseemly for the strong to smite the
weak — they should rather be treated with contempt.
All the three ladies respected Leoline ; that was the
exasperating part of it to Cyrus. Abigel became
subdued and romantic, with sparkling eyes and bated
breath, when he read his poems ; Charlotte smiled
glad thanks for a copy of verses — the trash ! — given
with a modest blush ; while Miss Knight, who ought
to know better, descanted on smoothness of rhythm,

elegance of imagery, and finely chiselled features, till
Cy could have pinched her with joy. Sometimes in
his hearing — for Abby presumed to treat her stalwart
cousin as if he were deaf and dumb — the young lady
and her friend would carve out the poet's future — what
business was it of theirs ? — as they sauntered, in the
cool of the evening, round the narrow prison-yard.
"Isn't it too bad," impulsive Abigel would say, 'that
the 3^oung gentleman should be deprived of his own ?
How well a coronet would grace that noble brow ! "
And then she would turn red and laugh uneasily
when Charlotte, for the thousandth time, promised to
see to it some day ; for was not a partisanship for Leo
a species of treason to Lord Osmington ?

When, long ago, she related that story to the
Princess of Wales, she had no special cause for gratitude
to him whom she considered a usurper ; now it
was otherwise. The young man's cause could not
be won without serious damage, if not actual ruin,
to her self-constituted guardian, who was unaware
of the part she had already played in rescuing the
lad from the smithy. It certainly was an awkward
position for her, and she felt it to be so. What a
pity that two masters cannot simultaneously enjoy
the same property !

Abby's nature and Leoline's were so well adapted
one to the other, that she felt drawn to him, as in
the childish days when she wandered in the pathless

woods ; and yet her allegiance was due to Vere
of that there could be no doubt — and she would
observe regretfully, " I wish he had his own, though
I would not strip my lord. No, Charlotte ; you are
wrong about his lordship. He's wild and eccentric,
but not half so bad as painted. At any rate, he is
kindness itself to me, and that should close your lips."
And then Charlotte would retort, "A selfish kindness,
since he is naught but selfishness. You are useful
to him, and he pats you on the head as he would a
spaniel. The time will come, mark me, when you
will cease to amuse, and he will drop you. He abets
my father in his follies, and I hate him, and so does
dear mamma. Yes, I do, Abigel ; and so will you
some day."

Cyrus overheard the conversation of which this
was the upshot, and dimples of satisfaction appeared
on his round face, such as the conversation of the
ladies seldom produced. Was the Princess right ? My
lord, no doubt, was selfish, never considering the
feelings of others, and as capricious as one of the
other sex. The change that came to his cousin when
she quitted Battle Magna had been an abiding sorrow,
for it raised her to a higher platform. While he
remained as he was, or even went down a Step, as she
persisted in declaring, she had bloomed into a lady
of fashion, and was quite out of reach, save in the
matter of humble devotedness and servitude. As a

lad he had nourished hopes, which, in spite of their
changed position, Angered yet in his heart. "What if
my lord grew tired of his toj^ ? She would descend
from the pedestal, and he might hope on still, without
the risk of a charge of lunacy. Oh rapture ! oh
delight ! He was so enchanted at the possible prospect
of such a misfortune befalling his adored, that, on
their way home from Warwick House one evening,
she could not but remark his elation and the beatific
swinging of the lantern which he carried to light her
steps.

Good gracious, Cy ; don't walk so fast ! " she
cried. *' How can I keep up with your great long
legs over the sharp stones ? I vow I will come in the
coach henceforth, and you shall spend your time with
your Cribs and your Benchers and your Earns, and
the rest of your low associates."

Please do not speak unkindly of one to whom I
owe so much," Cyrus entreated, slackening his pace,
and looking hurt. " Tom Cribbb is an honest man
and a gentleman under his homeliness ; and so am I,
I hope. If you don't believe me, ask Lord Osmington.
Should the Princess have spoken truth just now, you
may some time or other have worse allies than he
or I. Who knows what may happen ? "

Abigel stood still in the road, her black eyes flashing
under her silk calash. "For shame, Cyrus!"
she cried, with warmth, " The Princess, poor thing,

VOL. I. 15

is made suspicious of ill by her position; but it
becomes not you or I to speak evil of Lord Osmington.
Your Cribs, forsooth ! Horrid company ! "this with
a contumelious toss of the bewitching nose. " Lord
Osmington is the best of patrons, as you should know
right well; for he supports and assists you in the
deplorable line you've chosen, sorry as I am for
that ! "

Cyrus looked crestfallen, as he always did when
those eyes of sloe flashed fire at him, and grunted
under his breath.

The pair walked on in silence for a little, and then
Miss Eowe inquired, glancing with scrutiny at her
companion, "You've got something unusual creeping
about in that empty head of yours. Out with it, Cy.
What is it ? "

"The Princess's words set me thinking; that is
all."

"Thinking!" laughed Abigel, gaily. "My dear
giant Blunderbore, you don't know how to think."

"I was thinking what would happen if it turned
out true," he persisted slowly, "and wondering if

ever Oh, Abigel, my dearest dear, I would you

could look into my soul, and see how full it is — how
full of love for you ! "

The voice of her blunt swain was choked with
emotion, and tears rose to his cousin's eyes. No
woman was ever angry because a man laid down his

heart for her to walk upon, whatever his station ; so
this one wiped her eyes with her handkerchief, and
murmured softly, as she pressed his hand, "Oh, you
poor, poor, dear, puzzle-pated, blessed Blunderbore !
Would you wish a j^oung woman of fashion to mop
your honour's nose when Feefofum has mangled
it ? "

You would not have me give up the ring ? " Cyrus
cried. " What narrow prejudice ! I've a great career
in store. The Duke of York said so when I beat
Caleb Ann, Mendoza's favourite pupil, and gave me
this hoop to wear."

Indeed, you've not many ways open, my poor Cy,
of winning renown," returned his cousin, saucily;
so pray make no sacrifice for me. I read of your
battle, sir, to my lord over his breakfast, and he was
more mightily pleased with the account than I ; for
he made money on you. Faugh ! what butcher's
work ! You sent him flying through the ropes — a
great hulking ruffian of the lowest sort, my lord
declared — knocked him down like a ninepin, and hit
him once when the wretch was on his knees. That
was a cross. Master Cyrus. See how learned I am in
your nasty jargon ! "

But he was already beaten," returned Cyrus,
eagerly, *' and I almost unscathed. Did my lord
really say that Caleb was a hulking ruffian ? How
deceitful he is, then ; for he has taken him in tow,

and employs him on the class of work which he knows
I would not touch. In the lives of your grandees
there are a thousand things to disavow, which cannot
be done save through an agent."

** Un spadassin — a bravo ! " Abby said.

"A bad fellow. Not that I'm envious," returned
Mr. Smalley. " That is all on his side. There's
room in the Ark for both ; but his conduct to me's a
riddle. A man shadowed by the gallows-tree, such
as exist in all our great houses, worse luck ! One who
shrinks from no action, however base ; who fears nor
God, nor king, nor robin redbreast, nor a sword-thrust,
nor a stick, nor Botany Bay."

"Quite eloquent," gibed Abigel, *rover the vanquished.
Is it not true that there were doubts cast
upon your victory ? "

Have you not said yourself that my lord won his
money ? "

"Yes. But this Caleb Ann tells all our housemaids
that he was not fairly beaten, and Monsieur
Mendoza says so, too."

They're liars, then ! " declared the Sprig of
Myrtle, touched in a tender place. " 'Twas got up to
oblige Mendoza, and Cribbb and Beecher didn't like it,
though I was indifferent ; for Caleb is a swaggerer
We fought it out in proper style, two years ago now
and Ward, who was umpire, decided that it was fair.
What more can they want ? I might have hammered



him to pieces, but refrained, seeing bow done be was.
I'm sorry now, for courtesy is lost on siicb a
desperado. 'Twas proposed that we should fight
again, but I saw no reason."

He thinks you are afraid ; I'm sure be does."

Cyrus smiled and chuckled. " Never mind the
vermin," be said, reverting to the subject wbicb ibis
cousin attempted to avoid. *' Tell me now, bere in
the dark street, that if ever there should come a
rupture "

*'I should return to Battle Magna and Aunt
Pentecost," replied the girl, growing serious. "But
there will be none. Good gracious ! Cannot cousins
commune cosily without going fm'tber ? Who knows
if I shall ever marry, and what does it signify ? Why
cannot one like a person and confide in him without
his instantly babbling of orange blossoms ? Pray,
like a good Blunderbore, forget such nonsense ; for weare
quite grown up. What was funny in children is
improper now."

Cy was discomfited ; but made another effort as
they reached their home. 'promise me," he
whispered, '' that you won't take Leoline."

'* Now you become offensive," retorted the frowning
maid. " Your silly jealousy makes you impertinent.
Be sensible. Should it ever be as you say, which it
never will, I shall owe to my lord an education such
as places me above a pugilist. Don't deem me

unkind, dear Cy. I am very, very fond of yon, so
fond that I wish you were less free with those leg-mutton
males. Instead of cherishing impossibilities,
be a good boy, and attend to Mister Cribbb,
who is such" a gentleman, and some day you may
reach the dignity of — owning a public-house ! "

With a ripple of laughter, the roguish damsel sped
to her own nest in the immense Noah's Ark, leaving
her big cousin disconsolate.

Marrying and giving in marriage. Abigel showed
no leaning in the direction of matrimony ; neither
did Charlotte, whose engrossing thought was how to
escape from prison. But with her fond papa 'twas
otherwise. My lady's suggestion blossomed and bore
fruit. The Heir-apparent set himself to find a
husband for his recalcitrant prisoner, one who would
bear her away from the baleful example and counsel
of dear mamma. That was the chief point. For a
time, at least, she must be withdrawn from England,
to prevent the possibility of an alliance offensive and
defensive between stubborn, wrong-headed Charlotte
and the Kensington Messer. The Queen was requested
to chat of wedding-rings ; the royal aunts, to extol
the charms of hymeneal bliss. Again the Prince
announced, with emphasis, that there should be na
establishment without a husband to command it.
But here, as usual, he was met with obstinacy. Less
facile than he himself had been, Charlotte said she

should exercise a choice. The Prince of Orange was
Disposed — the very man. The Princess promptly
declined the honour, stating that the destined sjioso^
whenever he did appear, should be her slave, not her
father's. "He is so ugly," the pert miss added,
that when he comes into the room I am compelled
to put up my fan." " Your slave ! " somebody
suggested. *' Whoever you marry will be King and
exercise control over you." To which she made retort,
A king ? Pio ! pio ! — never. My first subject, not
my king." "Whereby we may conclude that the spirit
of the prisoner was far from broken by the monastic
dulness of her life.

Again to enter the arena with a chit ! The Regent
was aware that he could not drag her to church, but
would not give up his game. Who would be the
father of maidens ? The effect of dreariness seemed
scarcely promising. He would try the result of
indulgence. For the future, Charlotte might draw hip
the coach-blinds and bow to the ravished populace,
might even give some children's parties, and a hop
for the upper servants. Select and painfully proper
gatherings were organized at Carlton House, to which
the Prince of Orange was invited, where all the
cronies hovered in a circle on their best behaviour,
and passed the bottle surreptitiously. Balls were
voted too expensive and troublesome, and the Princess
was bidden to assume a matronly carriage to suit a

new condition. She certainly must be married, her
papa repeated ; 'twas an imperative duty ; but far be
it from a parent, who loved her so, to attempt to
force her inclinations. She was free to take any one
she liked, provided he was approved by her father.
Meanwhile, it was hinted that, unless she were quick
about it, the days of the future would be more dismal
than the past ; that the blinds would be pulled down
again, and evenings spent with old Vital, a polite
but blear-eyed fogram. She knew what that meant ;
for had not the drone already taught her drawing
with a stump burned in a candle ?

Rather than consort for evermore with forms, the
Princess gave way ; yielded to armed persuasion, got
used to the sickly complexion of the Prince of Orange,
and, there being no rival in the field, accepted him.
But soon after she discovered the trap into which she
had been lured. Orange was to carry her to Holland ;
she was to follow him, even on the march when he went
forth to fight the Corsican. It was a plot to get rid
of her. Why should they want to do that ? If it was
a duty to be married, it was also a duty, in one so
highly placed, to learn to know her people. Papa
could not well explain that his plan was not so much
to rid himself of her as to divide her from her mother.
Taking the bull by the horns, she cried aloud that she
was tricked, that she had been teased into accepting
Orange; would have nothing more to do with him.

He was thin and hideous, his nose was like a grasshopper,
his legs no thicker than tobacco-pipes.
Letters flew hither and thither; letters to papa,
letters to my lord Liverpool and the Chancellor ;
letters to mamma at Kensington, whom she would
never desert by submitting to married exile. Couriers,
messengers, pages, were continually on the run. They
might strangle, beat, lock up, hunt to death the
wretched quarry that had never done them harm ;
she would be upheld in all her trials by the support
of conscious rectitude. It was perfectly plain now, if
ever there had been a doubt, that papa was a cruel,
crafty ogre ; mamma his injured victim. Orange
knew not what to make of the lively family into
which he had been dropped. The Regent made lame
excuses, swore that there never was or ever could be
again so outrageously stubborn and hysterical a
hussy ; the public growled that their prospective
Queen must not be bullied and coerced. The end of
the year found them all plunged into a broth that
was as hot and unclean as usual; and Brummel,
looking on, wondered whose liver was deranged.

CHAPTEK X.

DOWNHILL.

It was a pity the martyr was so little worthy of her
daughter's championship. Her conduct was becoming
so imprudent as almost to satisfy the Regent while it
irritated him ; and the hate she cherished for the
man whom she called " Mrs. Fitzherbert's husband "
grew daily in intensity. The usual evening amusement
of the Princess of Wales, when not on the
rampage or at Vauxhall, was to fashion a waxen
figure with a pair of horns and a large stomach, and
sticking it full of pins, after the superstitious manner
of the Moyen Age, to set it to melt before the fire.
She prattled to her ladies of the '* fat brute's " demise,
which must surely be imminent after a protracted
course of waxen hocus-pocus ; discussed pros and cons
as to a subsequent match with the lazzaroni, and
graciously promised to continue followers in office if
they would bow the knee before her love. Servants
gave warning and fled, for no one could retain a
character who remained in such a menage ; and when

they were gone she cursed then memories (the conversation
of her Highness was freely garnished with

a d ), calling them prim and strait-laced.

In March of this j^ear (1813), the sword which she
had held so long suspended fell, and was harmless and
hunted hy reason of delay. The garbled version of
details connected with the Delicate Investigation of
1806, prepared by Percival, was disgorged upon the
public — a version creditable to neither side — and people
read 'the book" with feeble interest. The events
happened too long ago ; besides, it was evident on the
face of it that the account was doctored. Mr. Worsley
got up in the House and complained weakly that the
royal family was the only one in England that cared
nothing for its reputation ; a false statement, for the
crashing of foul linen became fashionable long since,
being practised by a fair majority of the upper ten,
who were too loyal not to imitate their betters.
Ancient tales are tedious ; but rumour began to
whisper, to the delight of scandal-mongers, that
another delicate inquiry was imminent, which would
bring to light the mysterious doings at Kensington.
If the wife was performing conjuring tricks to bring
about her husband's death, the latter was plotting to
be rid of her by any possible means ; the desire for
freedom mutual. But the public mind, if callous to
old scandals, was not in a humour to tolerate new
ones ; so, when the Princess rushed as usual to the

front and memorialized Parliament on the subject of
her latest grievance, she was wisely dismissed with
a hurried declaration that "nothing special was
imputed." Of all things, she most detested vagueness
and hushing-up. Beset by a diseased craving for
notoriety at any price, she took an unhealthy pleasure
in splashing herself with mud. It was vain for those
who would befriend the unhappy woman to preach of
dignity and reticence, for dangers narrowly escaped
carried no warning. *' Ministers wanted to gag her,
did they? No, indeed ! " Foiled in the attempt to
raise a breeze at Westminster, she fell back upon the
letter of twelve pages, which, bandied backwards and
forward, had never met with a reply. Such a nice
motherly and wifely letter, deploring a cruel separation
from a darling child, whose education needed the
finishing touches which only a mamma could give,
professing a Christian anxiety about confirmation —
the outpouring of a meek sufferer afflicted with a
tender conscience. As we have seen, the exasperated
husband refused to have anything to do with it. How
could he cope with a vengeful fury who was so
cunningly advised ? As printed and published in the
Morning Chronicle, nothing could be more sweet and
fitting than this said letter, more calculated to put
him in the wrong. "Was it not aggravating to be
denied the satisfaction of showing her up ; of saying,
Look at the swarthy wolf clad in the wool of the

mutton ? " Within the sympathizing circle his Royal
Highness, as he fumed up and down, called all the
Chinese lanterns to witness a terrible oath. Couth
qui couth ! He would unveil the dreadful female, sue
for a divorce ; he would have another inquiry, in which
shuffling Grenville should take no part, and publish
the result thereof. Sherry hiccupped that in squabbles
with women men get their eyes scratched out. My
lady was for letting things take their course. Yere
murmured that there was too much of the Brutal
about it, and too little of the Balmy

A second inquiry was accordingly set afoot, but
ministers, obliging enough in a general way, were
peremptory in the matter of publishing. Public morals
had already suffered grievously from the performances
in the laundry, and the Opposition were as sharp as
lynxes, ready to use any weapons. There was nothing
for it but patience. If her escapades were left unnoticed,
the Princess would plunge deeper and work her
own destruction. Patience ! The Prince's stock was not
like that of Fortunatus, which, draw on his purse ashe
might, was never empty. What mortal could be
patient under the effect of the enemy's tricks ? It
came out that the nice motherly epistle was concocted
by Brougham and AYhitbread, who thoroughly gauged
the feelings of the public with whom they had to deal.
Popular feeling was sth-red in favour of the supposed
writer, for sure none but a noble mind could be capable

of such edifying sentiments. It was possible, probable
even, that the lady had long ago, misled by juvenile
skittishness, been guilty of unwisdom, but the past
was condoned and done with. Certain public bodies
actually sent deputations to Kensington to condole
with the injured martyr, and Charlotte was earnestly
adjured never to desert her mother. In April, the City
^^as successfully agitated by cunning Whitbread, and
3, solemn address was forwarded by my lord mayor,
expressive of commiseration.

Poor Gentleman George, engaged in warfare with
his daughter, unable to set himself right with regard
ito his wife, was he not in a sorry plight ? How
horrid to be compelled to hold his tongue, though
possessed of such a budget as would have turned
the tables, had he been allowed to use it ! "Go on,
go on," he grumbled ruefully. "You set up and
worship an idol of your own manufacture. You
don't know her as she is ; I do ! " And with this
strictly private protest he was forced to be content,
and carry his weight of trials.

But he was not going to be tempted to answer that
hypocritical letter, to step into the trap prepared by
Brougham and Whitbread. Nothing should induce
him to do that, however much a deluded public chose
to admire the effusion. So it flew about the town
with an unbroken seal; was sent to Carlton House
and returned with compliments; was despatched to

my lord Liverpool, then to my lord chancellor, who
looked at it with hands behind him ; and the more
studiously it remained unopened the more the martyr'
howled.

For a brief space Caroline was amused by the
detonation of her thunderbolt, and gratified by the
deputations and addresses. But constant change and
pastures new were necessary to her unsteady mind.
Brougham warned her of possible surveillance, explained
that it was within the Queen's prerogative to
turn her out of Kensington, where she had coals and
candles gratis, and that a retreat might be selected
for her of which she would not approve. Much as
she loved notoriety, she disliked being dogged. If they
turned her out of Kensington it would be a charming
new grievance, but highly inconvenient. For two
pins she would retire from the unequal conflict and
leave England. True, she had worsted the foe in battle
and inflicted festering wounds, but it was in the power
of the enemy to make her extremely uncomfortable,
and to that she much objected. Some people wondered
what new bee could be buzzing in her bonnet ; others
did not, for they could put two and two together.
Beloved Chanticleer, the handsomest of lazzaronis
with the treaties of tenors, was — gone away ! Bribed
by Brougham, whose interest it was for the moment
to keep the Kensington stye tolerably sweet, the
seductive Italian had left the country, and all the

fiddling of all the fiddlers was incapable of filling the
void. Not but what fiddlers and squatters were legion
an army of mendicant Apollos. They were an
engaging set, but had their drawbacks, as their hostess
was fain to confess. For instance, they pocketed the
cutlets and borrowed shillings from the footmen — ungenteel
proceedings both. The dwindling remnant of
respectable hangers-on began to be liberal of unsought
advice, and her Koyal Highness was too headstrong
to relish unsavoury counsel. She had a way of
saying, " By Gar, if I say I do a ting, I coot ; '* and
she certainly did, all the more if people protested.
Mr. Whitbread, who made very free, had the impudence
once, before a roomful of people, to bid her
cover her person, which was rude ; while as for
Brougham, he degenerated into a kind of dry-nurse.
The attitude of the latter to the Princess and hers to
him were whimsical enough, for each was always
trying to overreach the other. Though he built his
repute upon the remnant of hers, he cared nothing for
Caroline. The one seemed to think, " She may be
useful to me;" the other, ''He is useful to me at
present." So they masked a mutual disrespect with
cordial and effusive greetings.

Even Leoline, whom she had dragged out of the
gutter, presumed to take his patroness to task, and
she resented the impertinence. AVhat next ! If he
dared attempt such a liberty again, she said, she

would tiu-n him out of the house. Poor LeoHne !
The position of a sensitive young man like him was
indeed pitiable, in the midst of vulgar grovelling and
pocket-picking, unblushing theft. More than once
a surging disgust bade him flee away and take refuge
anywhere, as his ancestor had done ; but an uncertain
sense of duty kept him in the slough, for he
had not yet quite abandoned all hope of recovering
his own, although he no longer talked of it. He was
3'oung and could wait, and was inwardly tempted to
hold cheap a distinction which he saw so outrageously
abused. If a man is no hero to his valet, 'twas permissible
in Leo, who was behind the scenes, to contemn
both royalty and peerage. What did he see of either
that was captivating ? Deprived of glamour, how little
there was to induce a poetic visionary to hanker after
rank! But he could not forget his dying mammy,
who commanded him to take her marriage lines and
claim what was his by right. From her point of view
it was the distinct duty of the last of the race to make
good his claim — for the sake of the dead and gone, if
not for his own — to grave the names of the nameless
on the roll of the illustrious Northallertons. To him
how vain a task, how thankless, and how difficult !
What a mockery to blazon the titles and cognizance
of those who in life were paupers ! 'Twas foolish of
his mammy Naomi — a homeless outcast, who in rags,
upon a truss of straw provided in charity, gave up her

VOL. I. 16

breath — to lay store by tinsel baubles. How contradictory,
too, was she — bidding him at one moment to
make good his rights, then saying that by men he
never would be recognized ! Was it his duty to hearken
to such babble ? Might it not have been better to
have disobeyed an idle wish at once — have torn up the
marriage lines, gone with the stream? What good
had come of his visit to Battle Magna ? Apprenticeship
to a trade which he was too weak to follow, then
a plunge into a society that was repugnant, loathsome.
By degrees, all personal desire to wear a coronet was
waning. For the sake of the departed, he would be
glad to have it ; for his own, he cared little now, for
his spirit was attuned to higher things. And yet how
strange a chance that he should have become a
member of the household of a Princess of Wales !
Was this a first step hewn by Destiny ? 'Twas impossible
to tell as yet, for Caroline, save where her selfish
pleasure was concerned, was slippery and wayward,
given to promises which were not to be fulfilled. One
thing was clear — by himself he could do nothing,
for he had no money, no influence, no proofs excepta
shadowy report that was mere fable, and one bit of
paper. Supposing his mistress were to supply the
funds, where was he to look — where search to make
his title good? Leo was not a man of action, one
who loved fighting ; but a dreamer, a philosopher, who
preferred the contemplation of nature at rest, and the

construction of elfin bowers. What a man for such
a task as that which loomed before him ! Longing
for meditative peace, he might not have his way, for
the names of the dead seemed to his vivid and cultured
imagination to be singing an upbraiding chorus,
while, swept along as he was in the vortex of the
Comus dance, he could neither obey the behests of
the departed nor fulfil his poetic dreams. There was
nothing for it but to put up with present disagreeable
and wait, hoping that wilful Caroline would be
impelled to take up his cause again some day and
give him at least an opportunity of fairly trying his
chances. Thus, perhaps, might the clamorous sighing
of the dead be stifled.

Abigel watched her playfellow and was distracted
by opposite conclusions. In her heart of hearts she
was still ambitious for his behoof, and, inwardly condemning
a sloth which so sharp-tempered a damsel
could not understand, christened Kensington his
Capua. The attitude of the ragged mountebank ashe
faced my lord in his cups was finer than this
resignation. 'Twas she who had raised him to his
present place, and it was ungrateful to complain
instead of making the most of advantages. He did
not like the Comus crew ? Well, all the more reason
to wheedle Caroline, for when he had his own he
would be free to choose his company. Leo shrank by
instinct from a knotty problem to which he saw no

solution ; and Abigel, for her part, rarely referred toit,
lest she should seem to plot against my lord.
Taking a simile from the jargon of cousin Cy, she
would have liked the post of referee, watching two
combatants do their best, in both of whom she was
interested. " My dear girl," the young man replied,
sadly smiling, when one day she told him this, *sin
desiring such a contest you show little care for me.
Possession is nine points of the law. My lord has
the laugh on his side, and is like to keep it ; for I am
obscure — as nameless an adventurer as any of her
Highness's following — and would very soon be beaten.
In truth," he added, with a sigh, " I find it hard to
care. What is the world, lovely as it is, but a
vestibule ? The sooner we pass on the better." To
this Miss Kowe retorted, that if we are kept in a lovely
vestibule it is well to be as comfortable there as maybe.
" My view of the world," she said, " is untimely
enough, but I have learned to make the best of it.
My lord is no better than your Princess, but if well
managed he is kind. I am compelled to look upon
all sorts of things which I would prefer to have concealed
; but, for all that, I take what is pleasant without
making moan, or wishing that I were dead ! "
That must indeed be true, Leo reflected with concern.
You must see much that you ought not to see."
His pensive face was clouded by apprehension as,
clasping her hand, he whispered anxiously, " God preserve

thee from harm, my sweetest Abby. Pray that
you may be steadfast. Yet why should I be alarmed ?
A sunbeam passes through pollution unpolluted."

This was quite of the heart-and-dart order, but you
must not run away with the idea that the pair were
falling in love. Leo was too conscious of his carelessness
and questionable position — morbidly so, in
fact — to desire to make matters worse by attempting
to run in double harness. Good lack ! What had
he to offer to a maiden ? Did not he hang completely
on the caprice of the most capricious of women, who
might at any moment thrust him forth into the
cold ? A pretty fellow to make love jour le hon motif!
No, no ! Ardent as were his tell-tale glances sometimes,
he steeled his lonely heart against pretty Abby,
liking the girl too well to wish so hard a fate for her
as union with a waif. Miss Eowe, the successful
superior lady of fashion, was quite above such fudge.
If he saw too much of the dark side of royalty to care
about a diadem, she saw enough of Cupid to act as
warning against silken fetters. What she beheld of
hearts and darts did not entice to imitation. Conflicts
between her idol Prince and his bete noire; awful,
soul-harrowing warfare, for which she was deeply
grieved, between Charlotte and sallow Orange ; rows,
daily and hourly, of a kind which demand a veil
between her guardian and his menagerie. Light
flirtation had its charms, if frivolous and meaningless.

and was very pleasant, when she got the chance.
What with the things she saw and heard among the
ton, and what with the accounts she read each
morning over a dish of chocolate, we cannot but
applaud a sensible young person for soaring above
weaknesses that compromise liberty. You may
suspect that so audacious a vain creature will come
to be punished, and, very properly, will singe her
wings and weep. That for the present is in the womb
of Time. The cronies — Vere's bosom friends — over
whose festive repasts she chose to preside now and
then, though irresistible devils in their own esteem,
were not the men to make a breach in the bulwark
of her virgin affections. How should they ? At midday,
when she saw the most of them, their hands were
palsied by six bottles overnight, their tongues so
furred that they could scarce articulate. Their brows
thumped as if about to burst ; and she, really
superior after a sound night's rest and morning
gallop, could laugh at their rickety compliments.
To her healthy inexperience, Cupid was no pink-skinned
boy of perfect symmetry, bathed in early
dew, sweet with the scent of daffodils. He reeked
of port and tobacco, lurched and clutched with fevered
fingers, and upset his snuff-box in her lap. The only
males with whom she was thrown in contact, who
were not always recovering from a drunken bout or
commencing to dive into another, were Cyrus and

Leoline. The former she patronized with careless
condescension ; he was of no account. The latter
was a brother of lofty genius — an abstraction who
descended from the clouds, as Moses from the mount,
to deliver words of wisdom. Even were he to ask
her to be his — which he showed no signs of desiring
to do — how could she dream of prattling to him of
the dearness of calves-head, or what was to be done
with the dripping? No. To her mind, unsophisticated
with regard to genius, he was a being of
higher grade, to be worshipped from a respectful
distance. Therefore, so far as she knew to the contrary,
the maiden's heart was an empty casket. She
was a sleeping beauty, waiting for the kiss which
was to rouse her dormant faculties.

But to return to a less pleasing subject than the
working of a virgin mind. Caroline, with all her
glaring faults, was not ill-natured, unless directly
provoked ; was endowed with a fitful glowworm sort
of humour, that gleamed luridly out of a murky
atmosphere. Of course she hated the coterie of
Carlton House, individually and collectively ; for who
but they counselled the persecutions of " the brute " ?
Her fiddlers, she sneered, where no lower than maudlin
Sheridan, or the lackey's grandson, or the avowedly
vicious Vere. To please the coterie, she was shunned
by peers and peeresses. What then? She would
create a noblesse of her own. To this end, partly for

fun and to be talked about, partly because she knew
it would annoy Lord Osmington, she began operations
with her page. What a shock for Leoline, who
wished to remain quietly in shadow till something
tangible should present itself. Was the moment for
which he had settled to wait, already come ? Was
his mistress, turning like a weather-cock, about in
real earnest to espouse his cause ? She gave orders
to all and sundry that Mr. Jarvis was to be called
Northallerton, and treated by the household with
respect. The seal bearing the family coat — his
mammy's only treasure — she hung by a ribbon round
his neck, as a lady might adorn a lap-dog, and gave
him such attire as befitted his phantom rank. On
his next visit to Warwick House, Abby clapped her
hands, and Charlotte said, while Miss Knight nodded
approval, that fine feathers became him well. Not
so Cyrus, who saw only another trait of arrogance on
the part of the jackanapes, and who, when Leo held
out his hand, abruptly placed his own paws behind
his back, and, snorting, turned upon his heel. The
ladies, he growled, must be demented so to humour
a mere wind-bag : Abby might scold and stamp, but
that was his opinion, and he cared not who knew it.
Poor Leo looked terribly mortified and embarrassed
as he hung his head ; for, indeed, 'twas vastly absurd
to be my lord and not my lord, to be decked out in
gorgeous raiment with never a tester in his poke.



In lier own domain the Princess ^Yas imperious and
would be obeyed, so there was no use in disputing
her whim. Were definite advantages to follow?
Alas ! it seemed little like it, for the time at least.
Leo had cause to be dissatisfied with his mundane
status, for Caroline could not be got to promise
practical assistance ; and the Comus crew cursed the
daw in peacock gear, vying with each other in envy.

The most important result of the Regent's second
series of inquiries into the conduct of his spouse, was
a peremptory order that mother and daughter should
meet no more, except at rare intervals in the presence
of selected witnesses ; and we cannot blame those
who gave the order, knowing what now we know.
Some of those behind the scenes said that her outrageous
behaviour was the result of natural depravity;
others, that she cast feminine decency aside merely to
annoy her husband ; others, that insane, her madness
took the form of a perverse wickedness. This last
was her mother's opinion. So seemingly harsh an
order was sure to be made the most of by her party.
More epistles in the Morning Chronicle; more speeches
by Whitbread in the House. She posed as the guiltless
one ; and Charlotte, smarting under coercion,
joined in the outcry. This was a fertile subject for
quarrelling in all societies, and Cyrus did his best, for
private reasons, to set Leoline and his cousin by the
ears, when the trio met at Charlotte's. Abigel, biassed

by her friend, deplored the cruelty of her idol, which
she was not fully prepared to justify ; while Leoline,
penetrated with disgust, could not bring himself to
explain to two innocent young ladies the details of
the Kensington menage. Caroline, descending step
by step, was going all lengths. Kensington was too
public a place for the fully developed orgies of the
Comus crew, so she engaged a deserted cottage, hidden
away at Bayswater, whither she would resort, with a
group of the Vauxhall fiddlers, unaccompanied by
a lady of the household. It was to be a Trianon,
she said, where she, like Marie Antoinette, could
abandon the stiffness of state for the sweets of privacy.
Ye gods ! Stiffness had long ceased to characterize
the proceedings at Kensington ; but there were sentries
at the gates, and housemaids who had eyes and ears,
and she had cause to remember that, in the first
inquiry, housemaids were conspicuous witnesses.
So off she would go, engrossed by the new freak, to
'* Trou Madame'' driven by the elder Sapio in a
pony-chaise ; and, having spent the afternoon in the
secluded retreat, like an elderly Mary and Rizzio, she
would come back, in the cool of the evening, thinking
she had done something clever. Leoline never joined
these parties, for they pained him, preferring to sit
at home with Madam Ambrosia Cotton, glumly awaiting
her return. What an existence to be condemned
to bear ! What a sickening sequence of degrading

scenes ! When the Princess came back from '* 'rrou
Madame'* so soon as the ring of pony-hoofs was
audible, forth from hole and corner would troop
unbidden guests, in anything but wedding garments,
and then an orgy would commence, with fiddling and
squalling and whiskey-punch, that was sure to last
tiU daylight.

Her Royal Highness called the proceeding a diner
soupative, and her time was equally divided between
gorging on her own account and calming the wrangles
of her favourites. Mercy on us, what an eater she
was ! " Une de ces femmes," old Sapio said, grinning
like a hoary old baboon behind her back, " qu'il faut
attaquer par le diaphragm ; " and well he understood
his role. Sitting by her side, he piled food upon her
plate, squeezed her fat waist, and, when the moment
was propitious, babbled of little money transactions
in which was needed a Samaritan. Among them, the
fiddling satellites bled the poor lady till Leoline was
scarlet with indignation. To satisfy their greed, her
silver was in pawn, her jewels, presents given by the
mad King to appease his conscience ; and yet they
were not satisfied. The young man almost wished
that his patroness might be placed under restraint, for
it was shocking to see her devoured by this vermin,
luxuriating in the Bayswater kennel ! Unless something
was done soon, the Regent would be divorced
by death ; for, while she gormandized, stout Caroline's

face grew purple, and she seemed on the verge of
apoplexy.

We are nothing if not indiscreet, and, being curious
to boot, will look in on the Comus crew. Her Koyal
Highness is in great spirits to-night, or is the look on
Blowsalinda's face due to increased brazenness ? Her
little eyes roll in their deep sockets, and she shouts
in a loud, hoarse voice for the goblet by her side to
be replenished. There is little in the life of Caroline
to make her really gay. When a new stroke is aimed
at her by reason of her reckless folly, she assumes a
sprightly air, which conceals the extreme of bitterness.
As she came in, she received two messages that vex
her soul, so she makes believe to be cheerful. One,
for which she was prepared by Brougham, to the
effect that, unless she changes her habits, she will be
banished to Holyrood; the other from Charlotte,
whom she may see no more, refusing a proposal of
her mother's. She doesn't quite know what to make
of grown-up Charlotte ; for the girl admits that love for
papa is oil, professes sorrow for the trials of ill-used
mamma, and yet declines to be made a tool for the
gratifying of the latter's malice. What are hollow
professions but insults ? Of what use is a daughter
who refuses to take her stand and say, *' I am grownup.
I am heiress to the crown. Papa and granny
hate my mother and don't choose to recognize her
existence in the family circle ; therefore will I take

my mother's part, and refuse to appear at aii}^ entertainment
except under lier fostering wing ? " If, taking
mamma's advice, she were to carry out this principle
with the firmness or obstinacy which she knows so
well how to assume in her own concerns, in how
awkward a predicament would the Court party be
placed, and how overjoyed would be the Princess of
Wales ! There is talk of a Drawing-room, at which
the young lady is to be presented. What an opportunity
for the guiltless one to make irruption into the
circle, and, standing beside her child, insist on being
recognized ! What a tableau ! The epistolary thunderbolt
would be nothing to it ! The brute, discomfited,
would be driven to hide his confusion behind a
bumper of Curacoa. But the minx, rich in protestations,
will not help mamma to this splendid bit of spite
not even to be revenged on granny and the Court
of frumps and tabbies. So, baulked in this direction,
Caroline is evolving another brilliant idea, whilst
gorging supper and imbibing punch, whereby she sees
an ingenious way of stabbing the odious Regent.

There is to be a masquerade at Wattier's, given
by the members of the club to the society of the
metropolis in honour of the battle of Victoria. The
Prince will be there, and every one of any importance,
as well as a large contingent of City magnates and
their ladies, and a battalion of the demi-monde.
What fun to take advantage of the mask, and appear

like a bombshell in their midst ! Tickets need be
no difficulty. The object of these meetings, these
festivals of licence, where Pleasure, the "reeling
goddess with the hopeless waist," reigns in undisputed
supremacy, is that society may be as mixed as
possible. We all know that. Why, Harriet Wilson,
the notorious courtesan, is going as a lady abbess,
and her two frail sisters, Fanny and Amy, as nuns.
Would it not be fun, a screaming joke, to attack
incognito the jaseyed Antinous, who so persistently
ignores his wife and her effusions, where he could not
escape, and tell him some home truths ?

The Princess calls for another bumper, and cackles
with delight at the idea ; but it is not received with
enthusiasm. It may be amusing to her; but the
crew can gain nothing by it. What do they care
about vexing the Prince of Wales ? On the contrary,
that hint of Holyrood is making many of them serious.
Kensington is convenient, and " Trou Madame has its
good points; for in the solitude of its shady walks
money can be inveigled from the pocket. But
Holyrood ! Banishment to a gloomy palace like a
fortress, among a set of Puritans ! Decidedly, her
Royal Highness is going too far, even for the Comus
following. Madam Ambrosia Cotton has just gained
the speaker's eye, and is opening her thin lips to
remonstrate, when her words are merged in a shriek.
Whatever is the matter? '' Something— under the

table ! " she gasps ; and Mrs. Sapio, vowing shrilly
that 'tis nothing, looks foolish and confused.

*' Oh yes; there is something horrid!" persists
Ambrosia. ''My satin shoe is wet. Northallerton,
do seek something soft and hot. I took it for a
footstool ! "

Leoline plunges under the cloth, while the satellites
look guilty, and presently reappears, flourishing in
his hand — a goose ! A complete goose, smoking hot,
which Mrs. Sapio, like a prudent housewife, had
whisked out of sight for removal later to her lodging.
There is a pause of general confusion ; for others,
doubtless, have secreted something in ambush. The
Princess gives a great guffaw, and is tickled ; for the
meanness of the petty lacey is in unison with her
cynical mood. Not so Ambrosia, who exchanges
glances with Leo. Really, this is worse than any
tavern. She has borne much, she complains, but
there must be a limit. The Prince of Wales is right,
and the ignorant mob are wrong. They are disgracefully
hoodwinked. It behoves those who respect
themselves to beat a hasty retreat. She, Madam
Ambrosia, one of the last to linger, begs with regret
to state that, seeing the company her Pioyal Highness
keeps, she must resign her post forthwith. And
yet, even at this eleventh hour, she relents; for it
does seem cruel to leave her mistress to the harpies.
Much as the Princess resents interference, there is a

way sometimes, with cautious tact, of coaxing her
past some fatal rock. Were she left completely to
herself, she would play into the hands of her enemies ;
and Madam Ambrosia, who once was evilly entreated
by the prim little Queen for indecorum of a pale kind
is shy of the Court party. Besides, this very day,
when she and Leoline were discussing their unenviable
position, and wondering what to do, she had emphatically
decided that both for the present must
stand their ground and hold together. But there
seemed no end to the freaks and whimsies, and this
masquerade scheme was lamentably silly, if nothing
worse — would bring all concerned into contempt. Both
she and Leoline had often been dragged by Caroline
to Vauxhall and elsewhere, when the latter sallied
forth disguised to seek adventure, and had had much
ado sometimes to bring her home unrecognized. In
privileged circles it was well known that she was
partial to such pranks. But to penetrate within the
portals of Wattier's, the celebrated club ! The more
Ambrosia implored, the more confirmed became
Caroline in her resolve ; and it was at length reluctantly
agreed that the adventure should be
attempted. Madam Cotton stipulated, however, that
Sir "William Gell and Monk Lewis should be of the
party; that the fiddlers should stay away, and that
the Princess should do her best to keep her identity
concealed.

Chapter XL

THE MASQUERADE,

All London was agog anent the brilliant fete with
which Wattier's was to amaze the town, and the
gentlemen of the committee were driven out of their
senses by the frantic rush for tickets. And no
wonder. Did not all the smart young men in society
belong to Wattier's club, at the corner of Bolton
Street ; all the marriageable young heirs to ancestral
honours, and all the penniless younger sons, whose
dowry was animal spirits ? Were not the handsome
Dukes of Devonshire and Leinster deeply interested
in the success of the affair, and had not George
Brummel himself deigned to superintend arrangements
? Even the deities of Almack's had promised
to come down from their high places for a few hours,
and sanctify the ball by their presence so long as the
proceedings were decent ; for it is well for the great
to unbend sometimes, lest they should snap for very
stiffness. Outside the sacred walls of Willis's, Lady

VOL. I. 17

Castlereagh, grandest of grandes dames, could deign
to condescend. Esterhazy and Sefton could be
amiable ; Leven a shade less haughty ; Jersey could
set aside her mock tragic airs ; the charming Cowper,
flower of the parterre, delight by her ethereal loveliness.
My lady Jersey had just introduced the
quadrille into blue-blooded ball-rooms, having learnt
that intricate and mazy series of leaps and gyrations
from a refugee who had dwelt long in France ; and
had undertaken on this occasion to allow fashionables
of the second class, who could never aspire to
Almack's, an opportunity of studying the measure.
Masquerades, at this period, were a species of carnival,
in which all the well-dressed strata of society might
mix. Even in some of the best private mansions
invitations were distributed by tickets, which could
be bought at the price of a guinea ; and it is sad to
relate that the cream of the cream kept gaming-tables
in their drawing-rooms, where the unwary were
speedily deplumed.

When a body of rich and fastidious gentlemen set
about the giving of a fete, guests have a right to
expect wonders ; and the City its and madams who,
paying the price, found their way to Wattier's, were
overwhelmed with astonished admiration. Of the
immense suite of apartments, many of which were
redecorated for the nonce, one surpassed the rest in
tasty splendour. Lord Alvanley christened it the

Dovecote, in contradistinction to the Rookery hard by ;
for subdued light and bosquets of exotic points beguiled
to flirtation, Awhile softly whispered compliments were
artfully covered by the rattling of dice next door.
Nothing could be more complete, for the whole club
was thrown open to the company. There were 
wherein those who pleased might change or
doff their disguises. There were whist and roulette
rooms; nooks where, pending supper, light refreshments
might be obtained ; a splendid dancing-saloon on the
first floor, draped with pale green sat and silver
muslin curtains, illumined by large French globes
tinged to a becoming pink. Every one agreed that
Mr. Brummel had surpassed himself in polite taste.
The refreshment department was besieged at an early
hour; for guests had started from their homes at
five, and the crush was so great that it was ten ere
many emerged from their carriages. The anxiety to
be present was so intense, indeed, that not a few fair
dames had their gowns torn from then* backs, and
returned afoot in rags, without seeing the fete at all.
In the great entrance-room were grouped the members
of committee, unmasked, clad in light blue dominoes,
to receive the company ; while his Grace of Devonshire
stood at the foot of the stairs to present each lady
with a ticket for a raffle, to be drawn at midnight.
Much as he detested crowds (at private parties he
rarely went beyond the hall), the arbiter elegantiarum

was early at his post, with a word of commendation
on this costume or that, which rendered its wearer
happy. Now and then he even condescended with
his own white hands to adjust details that had
suffered in the squeeze; but so extreme a gratification
was, of course, reserved for a favoured few, who
boasted of the honour afterwards. In some cases he
was compelled to condemn, as when he observed to
an untidy wretch, with biting sarcasm, " Sir, your
breeches are large enough for a family residence : is
nankeen so cheap?" But Jove was, on the whole,
benign, inclined to supernal leniency. Until very late
carriages continued to rattle up St. James's Street
and along Piccadilly; for dandies, who at Almack's
were forced to be harassingly punctual — duchesses
were reduced by the severe laws of that paradise to
the level of charwomen — made the most of the
freedom of the hour, and showed their independence
by a stroll in Fops' Alley at the Opera, or a desultory
chat in the round-room, before entering on the business
of the night.

It was a gay spectacle, one of those fairy scenes
of enchantment which are treasured in the memory.
Lord Osmington was conspicuous for a display of
jewels over his blue domino, borrowed for the evening
from the members of the Ark, on the strict understanding
that tomorrow he would add to the regalia.
Some ladies, like the fabled ostrich, hid their features ,.

leaving their bodies bare ; for so thinly were they
attired, that —

The welcomed eye perused the perfect shape,
And half forgot the intervening crape."

It is wonderful to consider how many fat people there
were in those days. Madam Courts was rotund ; so
was her Koyal Highness Caroline ; while her daughter
Charlotte at sixteen was overblown. My lady
Buckinghamshire, who, with Mrs. Boehm of St.
James's Square, officiated as hostess at this fete, was
fat enough to earn her living in a show. Alvanley
was like a bulging house that's just about to tumble ;

while, as for Antinous and jolly Frederick But,

bless me ! we must speak no scandal of Elizabeth, or
our royal brothers either. On the other hand, some few
people were preternaturally thin. Look at Sir Lumley
Kensington, clad as Hamlet, with his weaken old
Painted chin showing under the mask, and his feet
strapped with diachylum to make them small, who
creeps up the stairs like a fly that has outlived its
summer. I vow you could sweep him away with a
breath. And Edwin Lascelles, fashion's dearest sprig !
But that rollicking dandy has no time to put flesh u^Don
his bones. Pulled out of bed and popped into his
clothes at four p.m. by a faithful valet, brought to a dim
sense of existence by green tea, put upon a horse to
display a new marvel of Stultz's in the Eow, he never
has an appetite. The engrossing occupation of his

life is to gamble and to drink, and kill himself as
quickly as possible ; while, as for the working of his
mind, the tracing of the action of that recondite
article is as difficult as to gather moonshine. Yonder
attenuated dowager of Queen Anne's day, all buckram
bones and bravado, who shakes like a skeleton
dangling in Surgeons' Hall, is no other than Colonel
Armstrong, the fire-eating duellist — a capital disguise ;
while the slim gentleman whose limbs are concealed
by a friar's robe, and who walks limping, is no
other, some one whispers, than my lord Byron, whose
Child Harold " has just taken the town by storm.

But the Prince of Wales and his party have arrived.
York and poor Sherry are already very drunk, and
cling, with effusive affection, to each other and the
banisters. George is gloomy and ill at ease ; for he
is terribly harassed by the hot bath in which he is
floundering, and asks himself again and again,
"What have I done more base than other men, that
every act should be cunningly misconstrued, and that
my people should hate me so ? " In truth, his Royal
Highness has endured his full share of execration.
The ingenious writings of Messrs. Brougham and
Whitbread are doing their work well. The guiltless
woman is commiserated; the odious, abominable
selfish, wicked, hard-hearted, profligate Nero is
cursed and loathed. It is generally understood, to
alter an old adage, that a man may steal a horse,.

while a woman may not look over a hedge. In the
case of their Eoj'al Highnesses it was reversed, but
the cause thereof is clear when we come to consider
it. The cronies of the Grand Signor were heedless
of public opinion; my lady Hertford, though she
preached prudence, was too proud seriously to consider
the scum ; every trivial act of the Prince of Wales
was open to hostile criticism. The escapades of
Caroline, on the other hand, were carefully screened,
for purposes of their own, by a knot of clever men,
who were quick to seize upon the enemy's blunders,
and forge each imprudent act into a sharp weapon.

On account of his rank, the Prince of Wales had
come unmasked to this fete at Wattier's ; but the group
that formed his party were skilfully muffled. Who
could the gentlemen be ? They assumed no character,
and seemed to shun notice. Alas ! unlucky Prince,
to have arrived at such a pass ! Since an idea had
got wind — artfully propagated by mischievous Caroline
that Charlotte was maltreated by papa, the mob
descended now and then to open menace, and the
Regent was fain to surround himself with a humble
but muscular following, much as my lord Bute was
obliged to do some sixty years before. A purse little
gentleman in a Persian habit, whose sharp eyes glitter
through a silken vizard, is Mr. Townshend of Bow
Street, who watches over his charge with unflagging
perseverance. Four dominoes dressed as pages hover

within call, who, if they were to unmask, you would
recognize at once as our old friends Cyrus Smalley,
Caleb Ann, and Jack Eandal, under command of
Champion Cribbb. You may wonder at seeing the
Sprig of Myrtle and the Pink of Bow behaving like an
Eden lion and lamb, since, as you know, they have
little esteem one for another. They have fought on
the turf of slaughter, but no friendship came of the
contest, since its end was so unsatisfactory that each
claimed to be the victor. Caleb burned to fight again ;
but Cy, as he explained to Abigel, refused to give him
his revenge, arguing plausibly enough that when you
have given a man a thorough drubbing he ought to
be satisfied. If you are to go on pummelling every
thick-pated wight who will not lower his colours, there
will be no end to it. True, the finishing touch had
not been put to Caleb, but 'twas plain to be seen by
all the Fancy that he was done for. But Caleb would
not have it so. He had got rather the worst of it by
ill-luck, not science, he vowed, and 'twas mean of Cy
to refuse to renew the struggle. What was his reason ?
There could be only one. Cy had been lucky, but was
such a cur at heart that he dared not face his foe fora
second time. Thus decided Caleb, who accordingly
looked down on Cy, while the latter treated the sneers
of his quondam antagonist with good-humoured contemptuous
raillery. Now, Tom Cribbb has theories
founded, albeit he knows it not, on rules of ancient



chivalry. That two men who have stood up within
the ropes should sneer and snarl afterwards is very
shocking. He insists, therefore, that abroad the
rivals shall seem friends, however much they may
choose to gibe in private. He insists the more on
this, since they dwell now under the same roof, and
have ample opportunities of quarrelling unseen by
Corinthian amateurs. Rannn is looked upon by all as
the " coming man " of the Hebrew school of pugilism.
He finds increasing favour, for some occult reason, with
my lord Osmington, despite his rude manners and
rough, uncultured ways ; yet Cy is in no wise jealous.
The twas preserve a species of armed neutrality.
Each dishes the bearing of the other, but assumes
in public a civil silliness.

On the appearance of the princes the noise above
stairs reaches its acme. Lord Alvanley proceeds to
di-aw the raffle, and, squeezed well-nigh to death by
the perspiring but eager fair, presents to each a
trinket. " Sweet charmers, a little patience ! " he
cries piteously. "To be so close hugged would be
delicious, if you would do it one at a time. Really,
ladies, sou push me off the chair, and if I go over
the raffle must go too, and these pretty trifles will be
broken. Ah, those brawny shoulders should be Cribbb's.
I'd know 'em among a million. Come hither, friend,
and protect my weakness against the assaults of this
bewitching army."

And now, while each examines lier i^rize and wishes
it was more expensive, a rumour circulates that something
wonderful is going on in an adjoining saloon.
A murmur of applause and clapping of hands. What
can it be? Some fresh surprise imagined by the
hosts. A rush, a wave, upon the crest of which the
royal party is borne. Yes, a new arrival. What a
strange conceit ! How singular a fancy ! My lord
Osmington has cleared a space, and announces with
mock ceremony, " Her Majesty the Queen of all ! "

A lady enters, simply draped in white, wearing a
mask fashioned like a skull, round which is wreathed
a garland of primroses, while from her waist depends
a row of poppy-heads. All gather round, chattering
like pies, seeking to penetrate the new-comer's identity
Persians, clowns, watchmen, bacchanals. It's Miss
Bellamy, the heiress, some one suggests. No ; she
is taller ; her waist not quite so slim, her skin so
brown. Whoever she may be, the incognita is young.
Look at the shapely arm and tiny feet and swelling
bosom. Be she beneath the disguise a pig-faced lady,,
her figure, if petite, is enchanting. The company vie
with one another in proposals for her hand. *' I've
stared Death in the eyes a thousand times," an honest
tar declares, " and am not afraid to grapple with
thee." " Come to my arms, my dearest skull ; I've
fought thee many a time," cries one in a crusader's
habit. " Nay, try me," a Methodist parson whispers ;

for I've slept on a bier tins six months, nth
crossbones for a pillow." *' You're very like Yorick;
his sister probably ? " says he who is attired as
Hamlet. " Dread Queen, I'm pupil of Gall and
Spurzheim," bawls another ; " let me feel your
precious bumps." " Sport a toe with me," murmurs
a seductive friar at her elbow. " Never, Lord Byron,"
retorts the stranger, speaking in accents evidently
feigned. *have you not desecrated the majesty of
Death a thousand times? You'd place my skull,
tempered with blood-red wine, on your convivial
board."

The Prince of Wales, recovering somewhat from his
gloom under influence of noisy mirth, admires the
dimpled arms and shapely form in its simple robe,
and says gallantly, " In spite of you, I seem to know
yom voice. I've seen that waist before and loved it.
Who, having seen, could refrain from adoring such
a figure, such feet and ankles ? Let me offer to your
township a pinch of fine rappee."

To which the stranger responds with a saucy
curtsy. " A gift ? My word ! Surrounded by
diamonds of purest water; a princely present. Yet
will I none of it. Being of the people, 'twere wise
in me to leave snuffing and kindred accomplishments
to ladies with a dozen quarterings. Diamonds rise
from womb of earth like demons to lure astray poor
guideless mortals ere I send them thither. What to

she who rules the grave are the baubles sprung from
thence ? "

I abhor death ! " murmurs the Regent, shivering.

"Why so? The worst of death is the being a
corpse, and how short a while is that? When the
horrid thing is put away, and dust is dust, can we
not ether realize and feel the beauty of silence and of
sleep ? "

** Neither silence nor sleep are here," interrupts the
Kegent. *^ Diamonds are naught to you, no doubt,
with such a pair of eyes as pierce those crape-dimmed
sockets. Who are you ? Tell me."

Sober talk befits not your present mood," laughs
the sprightly fair one. " Come, sir, we will dance.
Say," she proceeds with accent and gesture mimicked
from awful Siddons, " will your Koyal Highness leap
with me, on the light fantastic, through the mazy
dangers of the new quadrille with the agile bounding
of the fawn ? My lady Jersey, summon your array.
The Queen will perform gambadoes with the Regent."

His Royal Highness, wondering who the girl can be,
agrees. Those who are sufficiently instructed take
their places, while Lord Osmington, in huge delight,
bawls, " 'Fore Gad ! dash, dash ! she's splendid, on
my honour ! " The City madams gather round with
eager curiosity, which speedily gives place to awe.
A company of noble dervishes ! Sure they must have
double joints in ankle and instep to skip with such

nimble jumps ! The high-flown caprioles that distinguish
the first performers seem the result of untried
strength and unaccountable, irresistible flights of
spirits, like the gambols of foals in a field. The Duchess
of Bedford's ems seul compels applause, which fires her
partner to rashness. The eyes of London are upon him.

Heedless of fleshly drawbacks. Lord Alvanley
springs into the air like a sportive rhinoceros, attempts
a glissade, and, with a thump like a stroke on the big
drum, measures his length upon the floor. The
imrquet is as stout as he, and bears the shock. My
lord, as brave as erst before the French, is up again
in a trice, smiling with confidence; redeems his
Terpischorean character by a prodigious pirouette,
and is listening to the congratulations of his friends,
when Brummel whispers derisively, "What a fool at
your age to attempt an entrechat'' To which the
other responds over his shoulder, " Too old am I,
upstart ? Not too old to blow out your brains, you
mongrel puppy, if I had not abandoned the duello."

Upon this the Regent, who is himself in the act of
performing miraculous feats, cries out, " Come, come,
keep your tempers ! Alvanley, don't quarrel about
nothing ; you know you haven't a leg to stand upon."

And so an incipient fracas is turned off with a jest,
and all are as merry as fleas.

"why did you select so repulsive a disguise?"
demands the Regent, between two graceful leaps.

"By way of contrast, perhaps," laughs his partner.

"Beneath that waxen horror I know that you are
beautiful," sighs the Prince of Wales, with the fascinating
manner which means so little and has undone
so many. " I claim your hand for supper ; no refusal.
We are woman's willing slaves, but slaves must not
be exasperated, you know. ' At supper, according to
rule, I've a right to beg you to unmask."

Is it wise to be inquisitive ? " replies the mysterious
lady. " I have told you that I am one of the people.
How can it signify, then, to your Koyal Highness what
my face is like ? What is the perfect oval of the
loveliest face but muscle and fat, which should appear
as beautiful on the white breast of a plump chicken ?
And how vague a thing is beauty ! By what inherent
principle should a mouth three inches wide be condemned
to ridicule, and a nose with a superfluous
bulb be looked on with disgust ? "

A fair philosopher," cries the Regent. " Demy,
but the jargon adds a piquant charm to grace. Take
care, lest I fall seriously in love."

What then, pray ? " gibes his partner. " Are you
so irresistible ? It takes two to carry on a love-passage
or a quarrel."

Could you not love me, then ? "

You ! " cries the lady, clapping her hands with
glee. " I am in my teens, and you have a grown-up
daughter. Milk remerciments I "

The colour flushes on the Kegent's cheek, and he is
silent ; and his partner, perceiving her shaft to have
been too pointed, lays a caressing hand upon his arm
and murmurs gently, " Sure you are not annoyed
that I should remind you of your daughter ? Charlotte
is a sweet instrument, if you knew how to play on it.
I know loth her and you, and love you well, as an
honest woman may love her prince ; and it pains me
that, misled hy evil counsellors, you should do yourself
injustice."

George started. "Who are you?" he inquired,
-^dth a touch of haughtiness ; " and what do sou
mean? "

*'I am a reader of thoughts. You are bent on
shattering a fine nature and forcing a girl into an
odious marriage. Remember your own ! "

"My daughter is stubborn and headstrong and
disobedient, and must be trained to better things, as
we break a restive horse."

To tune a harpsichord, do you rend its strings? "
inquu-ed the incognita. " You complain of having no
fitting object in the world — I've often heard you say
so. I give you one ! Play upon Charlotte with light
and tender touch, so shall she give forth harmony
instead of discord."

A stout lady had, for the past few minutes, been
hovering behind, attired as a sultana in a yashmak
and heavy veil, and now she put in her word with

a sharp sneer. " Ha, ha ! " she said in French, *' shall
a fat old bear jump upon hot bricks with light and
tender touch ? Fidonc ! he keei3S all his tenderness
for other people's wives."

The Prince of Wales recoiled. Being himself unmasked,
who was this who could make use of the
vizard to stab in the back like a bravo ? In figure,
she was like my lady of Buckinghamshire ; but that
lady's French was limited, and, besides, she knew
better than to presume. He turned to reply angrily,
but the aggressive stranger was gone, lost in the
crowd. Lord Osmington passed by, his brow furrowed,
his features distorted by passion. " Who is that
woman in a veil ? " cries George. " How the devil
should I know ? " retorts my lord, with scant courtesy ;
and he, too, is gone, sadly preoccupied, muttering
between his teeth as he shoulders his rude way —
"That reptile here? He shall rue his insolence."
The Prince of Wales did not hear a tall thin woman
say to her companion, *' Northallerton, my dear,
escort me to the tea-room," or he might have named
the bravo who hid herself behind the vizard. The
unseasonable interruption had recalled the spirit of
gloom that brooded over the Kegent when he arrived.

*swell, never mind Charlotte," he says to his
partner, with a bitter laugh. " She's an ungrateful
minx, who must be taught manners. Tell me what
you meant just now by saying you could not love me ;

I thought that every one could pretend to love a Prince
of Wales. At all events, you could let me love you
surely ? Of every pair of lovers, you know, one is at
least half passive. Remember the proverb, * De deux
amants, il y a un qui baise, et Autre qui prate la
joue ! ' All women have their price, and men, too, for
that matter. Some are rather expensive, that is all

Oh, don't," implored the wearer of the sepulchral
mask. "It hurts me to hear such coarse wickedness
from your lips ! "

The Regent scrutinized his partner closely, for there
was genuine pain in the speaker's tone, and said, after
a pause, "Do you know that you are really interesting
? Who is there that cares, except for the purpose
of abuse, what I do or say ? You are going the right
way to make me love you."

The lady's bosom heaved, and she said hurriedly,
No, no. The dance is over ; please leave me now."

"If you so order it. But I claim your hand for
supper, and will see your face."

My lady of Buckinghamshire and Madam Boehm,
so placid usually, were in terrible excitement and
fluster, for an awful truth had burst on them. In the
second dancing saloon a mazy waltz had been started,
and two large personages gyrated like teetotums in
the middle, to the amusement of the other guests.
The female one was thinly shrouded in a veil down
to the waist, below which her vast proportions were

VOL. I. 18

tied, as it were, in a tight bag of skimpy dimensions
and exceeding shortness.

After gazing for a moment at the curious spectacle,
a thrill passed through my lady Buckinghamshire,
and she ejaculated unconsciously, '* Only one woman
in all the world could wear such wrinkled stockings
and untidy shoes ! But she would not dare — it would
he too frightful ! "

She would, and has," retorted Lord Osmington.
The entire crew are here, no doubt to make a
scandal — even that beggar's brat who has the
impudence to call himself Northallerton. But I've
made my arrangements to settle his goose, the
insolent, lying impostor ! "

The hostess cared nothing about the beggar's brat,
but she saw looming a dreadful scene, for which the
Regent would hold her responsible. Those curiously
wrinkled legs were Caroline's — there could be no doubt
of it. That she should choose to frequent public
revels at Vauxhall and elsewhere mattered not, but
to force herself thus into an assembly honoured by
the princes ! My lady Buckinghamshire beheld the
lowering thunder cloud with consternation, and, shuddering
all over, sought out Madam Boehm. What
was to be done ? The princes could not be hustled off
with the excuse that Guy Fawkes was in the cellar ;
no more might Caroline — since there must be an
object in this escapade — without screams and shrieks,

which would inform the Regent of her presence. At
supper she would unmask. Yes ; she was capable of
it. The obese skeleton would come out of its cupboard
; and what then ? It would not bear thinking
of! Neither hostess chose to peer so far behind the
terrible veil. At that supreme moment of imminent
peril, my lady Buckinghamshire, the best-natured
woman in the world, could have assassinated Caroline
with joy. But how idle it was to consider the impossible
! What was the use of wishing for a sack
to pop over the head of the sultana, pending an
operation with a bow-string in the dressing-room
hard by ? What did my lord Osmington suggest ?
There was nothing to be gained by scowling and
uttering anathemas against a beggar's brat. The
creature in the yashmak was really and truly the
Dreadful Woman in the flesh. Did Lord Osmington
realize that fearsome fact ? It was — there could be
no doubt of it.

Yes ; my lady Buckinghamshire was right. The
sultana was indeed Caroline, who had carried out her
scheme. Leaving Kensington Palace by a private
wicket, she had actually walked, with Leoline and
Ambrosia Cotton, to the Albany, and, changing her
di-less in the apartment of Sir William Gell, had proceeded,
still afoot, to Wattier's, where, showing tickets,
she entered unopposed. *' How stupid of the reception
committee not to have marked those stockings ! " sighed

the hostess ; " but men are so blind in the matter of
dress, and so lamentably wanting in resource ! "

There she was — the past may not be undone. How
to get her quietly away? The reception committee
were called into conclave, and looked aghast. Lady
Buckinghamshire could only think of the bow-string,
and Madam Boehm of prussic acid. How unpractical
and impossible ! Would no one give sensible advice
something that might be followed ? Yes ; my lord
Osmington could and did, so soon as his attention
could be drawn from private grievances. Mr. Whit-bread
was sure to be at the Cocoa Tree, close at
hand ; he always spent his evenings there, and would
see the necessity of interfering, to stave off a threatened
something which all parties would regret. From
every one's point of view, naught but harm could be
anticipated from the continued presence of the Princess.
Mr. Whitbread, like the accustomed keeper of some
wild and dangerous animal, would come and coax her
away. She would wag her tail when he put uj) an
admonitory finger, and follow like a meek lamb,
instead of biting like a wolf. Really Lord Osmington
was not so stupid, after all. He must do his spiriting
quickly, though, to prevent a catastrophe. Calling
Caleb Ann to him, he went off to the Cocoa Tree,
and, conversing eagerly with that satellite on the
road, gave him secret instructions, which boded no
good to the beggar's brat. Meanwhile, the hostesses-and

the gentlemen in blue dominoes watched the
menacing thunder-cloud, and prayed that it might
not bm-st.

Miss Kowe, in the whimsical character she had
assumed, was a great success, and amused herself
vastly, playing her role so well as completely to baffle
Cy, who was not sharp in the deciphering of riddles.
She nearly drove him mad by dark warnings anent
her own flirtations with a certain page attached to
the Princess of Wales, calling on Mr. Smalley, as a
relative of the coquettish delinquent's, to keep her in
better order.

"Do you know," she hinted, "that the froward
baggage has actually received tokens of affection
from an august personage ? Give her a good
lecture, Mr. Smalley, and see what comes of it.
What ? You would not dare ? Pooh ! You've no
notion how tractable she is under the domineering
crust. Tell her roundly that you won't have such
goings-on, and mark how she behaves."

She racks my soul," groaned the despairing
swain, "and heeds me no more than a fly. Were
I to take too much upon myself she would box my
ears, as indeed she has done often enough already."

And you are so spiritless," scoffed the mischievous
maid, "as to hanker after a heartless bit of goods
who descends to violence ? Fie, you hulking Romeo !
Women folk are strange cattle, and like men who beat

'em; not such as submit to beatings. Give her a
sound slap, and she'll adore you."

She's not heartless, and I'd like to see the one
who would raise a hand to Abigel ! " cried Cyrus,
fiercely, knitting his brow and clenching his great
fists ; and Miss Eowe chimed her rippling bells of
silver merriment at the look of shocked distress which
spread over her cousin's visage.

She danced without flagging, but could not satisfy
the long list of suitors who pressed around to claim
a turn at the waltz. If Cy failed to recognize the
accents of his goddess under an assumed voice, Leoline
was more clever, and to him in private she confessed
her identity, promising a dance or two after supper,
if he would wait so long. Of course he would wait
till duty called him thence, but what his duty was the
deponent did not say.

"While the committee were in conclave, and Vere
was at the Cocoa Tree, the wearer of the yashmak
was preparing for a coup. Biding her time, she
suddenly intercepted the Prince of Wales in his
pursuit of a neat-ankle mask, and, speaking still in
French, begged his arm for a promenade. Impatiently
he waved her off, and as he was retreating, she hissed
into his ear, " No good ! That girl is honest, and will
want to go to church. How may you do that, having
two wives already ? "

Madam ! " he stammered.

But she continued hoarsely, *' Yes ; two wives — a
courtesan and a princess. You've broken the heart
of one, and earned the hatred of the other. Is not
that sufficient?"

The Regent grew livid with rage, and turned on his
shrouded accuser. " What and who are you ? " he
gasped. " I will know, if I have to tear off that veil ! "

"You are villain enough to do it," retorted the
sultana, crossing her arms. " Of what are you not
capable — you who persecute your second wife, and
hate your child because she will be your successor ?
Mon Dieu ! your crimes would make a charming
catalogue — comrade of harlots, bigamist, seducer,
adulterer, perjurer ! "

The Regent was so transfixed with amazement that
he stood undecided for a moment, with fallen jaw and
pallid countenance. Then, anger surging back into
his brain, he turned from the tall figure, which stood
motionless as if tempting him to strike, to seek the
blue dominoes, and demand an explanation of the
studied insult. The first he met was Brummel, who,
fatigued with unwonted condescension, was bored and
out of sorts.

There's a woman here," gasped his royal master,
*'or a man in woman's clothes, who, under cover of
a mask, has said things that — that pain me more
than I can say. I insist on your learning who it is
at once."

"A joke, I suppose," yawned the beau. "Time
was when your Koyal Highness was not so scrupulous
about jokes — at other people's expense."

** Brummel," said the Prince, with a frown, " take
care ! I have just and serious cause to be incensed.
You have hitherto been permitted unusual licence ;
do not let me repent it."

"If a woman goes too far, it becomes a man to
forget," returned the censor. "You've often been too
far yourself, which was vulgar, since your victims
had no alternative but to grin while being sacrificed.
Is it your turn now to wince ? Eemember Patriarch
Norfolk, whom you made dead drunk while bystanders
cried shame ! "

"I was a boy then," sighed his Koyal Highness.
Silly enough, God knows — guilty of the crime of
being incurably happy. How long ago that seems ! "

"And will be a boy till as bald as Jerusalem,
under that chestnut wig."

Brummel ! " cried, again in warning, the justly
offended Kegent. " What is the matter with you
to-night ? She insulted me, I tell you ; dared to call

Mrs. Fitzherbert There, there ! I cannot say

how shocked I am."

If Brummel had not been sleepy and perverse, he
would have seen how moved his master was, and
have pulled up in time ; for the sultana had touched
on the one theme which, to his honour, was ever

sacred to the Prince. In sooth, the beau was foredoomed
— swept like a ship upon the reefs. Unluckily
for his future comfort, he gave way to another yawn,
followed by a smirk that conveyed volumes, and said,
How different things are in different ages ! In old
times the Pharisees used to make 'em wear a special
dress ; live like pariahs, apart from other women :
now we give 'em palaces."

The speech was foolish. What could have impelled
a man, usually so punctilious, to fling a stone at the
poor lady for whom in general he professed pity?
He never knew himself, but laid the blame, in later
days, on a liver out of order. Certain it was that hein
turn had gone too far — had touched the tender
place in a way that might never be pardoned.

The Regent, too furious to trust his tongue, moved
away, without another word, to follow his trail of
vengeance. How hard to be a prince, to be unable to
unbend without dread of impertinence to follow ! In
how many freaks of licence had Brummel been permitted
to indulge unchecked ; how many breaches of
etiquette — nay, of common civility — had been condoned
; and now, in a case of serious moment, instead
of showing zeal in his patron's cause, he could only
yawn in his face and turn the arrow in his wound !
Brainless clothes-peg ! " George muttered, in high
dudgeon ; then ceased, for his attention was riveted
by a circle of blue dominoes, who were standing in a

side corridor whispering, with heads together, like so
many witches at a sabbat, too absorbed to notice his
vicinity.

She's gone ! Thanks to the Lord ! " puffed Lady
Buckinghamshire. " Never had such a thrill in all
my life. Sure there'll be grey hairs in my noddle !
Fancy the pot and the kettle in the same room !
'Twill be weeks before I get over it. Whitbread —
bless him ! — led her away by the hand, and popped
her in a coach, so none will be the wiser. What a
mercy ! "

*' I fear she's done damage of some sort," chimed
in Mrs. Boehm, wagging the edifice of feathers that
crowned the tower on her head. " Her pig's eyes
were too bright, her spirits too jubilant. I sent
Madam Cotton after her, and she clamoured for her
page ; but he was left behind. Not that that matters.
He's a pretty fellow and harmless, and will find his
own way back to Kensington."

The Princess herself — the Dreadful and 
sufficiently-detested Woman ! She ! How infatuated
and purblind not to have guessed it ! And
yet, who would suppose But, where she was concerned,
what was it not justifiable to suppose ? The
Kegent, brimming with exasperation, welling with
pent-up spleen, pounced on the circle of blue witches,
and rated them while they cowed. Friends, quotha I
enemies travestied, not to have defended him better

Knowing what they knew of the Megaera — the trinity
of furies rolled into one — why did they not throw up
earthworks, dig moats, establish ravelins and counterscarps
?

In sooth," murmured deprecating Lady Buckinghamshire,
" some one should have recognized her
stockings."

*' Ay, and her shoes," echoed Madam Boehm.

What summer-day allies ! " pursued the relentless
Prince. The mob might hoot ; that could not be
helped. But here, in these elegant green-satin
saloons, where he had confidingly and blindly trusted
himself, a bidden guest ! Must he lock himself, for
the future, in a single chamber of the teapot sanctuary,
and, like a condemned felon, see no face but one, for
fear of outrage from that woman ? If only Percival
had been spared, the tangle in time would have been
cut, the Benedict released from bondage ; but no !
He was gone, and none were left who cared for any
but themselves — not even for themselves, the selfish
create-es, for they could not see on which side their
bread was buttered. Carlton House should be closed
to all, every one of them ; that was flat. The palace
should be shut up. Its master would live at Brighton
altogether, with the Hertfordss, his only real friends.
Where was Yarmouth? Had he been by, such a
contretemps would never have occurred. Thus the
Prince tiU out of breath. The circle of dominoes hung

their heads contritely, bending before the storm.
They were very sorry. ^ * No one could have foreseen the
irruption of the here noire they trickled out in abject
undertone. The more his Royal Highness bellowed,
the sooner would the hurricane pass over and the sunshine
forth again. Only Sherry waking from a
drunken doze, with glazed eyes and sodden brain,
suspecting that something was amiss, tumbled into
the breach with ill-timed joviality ; and the Prince,
longing for opposition, fell on him tooth and nail.

*' Hold your tongue," he roared, *' you dirty sot !
But for your seat in Parliament, your head would be
under water, your pocket full of writs. You are the
worst of the bunch to whose pernicious counsel all
my woes are due ! "

He is a fool who strives to argue with one in a
passion, since rage is blind and cruel, and goads the
tongue to form harsh words which may never be
unsaid. But to be taunted with debt by the Prince
of Wales, to be told that the counsel of the faithful
one was pernicious — that was too much for intoxicated
Sherry, who, gathering up his shreds of tattered
dignity, addressed his master.

Princes have no memory," he whimpered. " Who
but I protested against that ill-omened match, declaring
that your father was deceiving you ? For you
I've dragged myself through all the filth of the cloaca,
and what is my reward ? " The poor fellow's long-smothered

heartache broke ito incoherent words, and
he fairly blubbered, rubbing greasy tears with dusky
fingers. *' Put not faith in princes ! " he hiccupped,
If I'd served my God as I have served my king —
no, I mean my prince — I should have been in office
now ! "

You in office ! You — whose father was a weathercock,
whose mother a chameleon ! "

' What ? ' ' shrieked Sherry. ' ' You doubt, I suppose,
my political integrity ? "

Political fiddlestick! " retorted the Regent, annoyed
at being di-aged into a futile passage of words before
listeners.

At all events, I never ratted ! " returned Brinsley,
A Whig I was born, and a Whig I'll die. You've
had my life-blood, turncoat ; squeezed out my juice
like an orange ; and now, no doubt, you long to give
my Naboth's vineyard to a Tory. Very well, Juggernaut.
To meet your wishes, I'll retire from Parliament,
since I cannot change my colour, any more
than an Ethiop, to please you. When I am completely
ruined, perhaps you'll be satisfied ? "

How was so rambling a tirade to be answered?
Was not his Pioyal Highness well used to be accused
of the worst motives ? Happily, the blue witches had
been stirring their broth in a corridor removed from
the dancing halls ; so — unusual circumstance — this
extra piece of foul linen was washed in private.

Alvanley, beaming with warmth and benignity,
broke in upon the operation with an announcement
that supper was ready, and begged that the guests
would control their evil passions. His Grace of York
had long since been carted home, sleeping with
stertorous snores. The Prince of Wales was provoked,
displeased with himself, with every one; for
had he not sworn never again this side of the grave
to hear the voice of Caroline, and had she not hissed
in his ear words that would rankle ? Well, well ;
there is no use in acting again unpleasant scenes.
The waters of Lethe are broad and deep ; but are
they profound enough to appease the myriads of
souls in pain, who clamour for a draught of oblivion ?
What matters it that three parts of our troubles are
homemade? Does that make them easier to bear?
Strong wine, generous wine, priceless gifts of the
gods ! When our heart-strings twang and quiver,
we can drown their writings in the bowl. Doth
Fate decree that we shall moan ? A fig for Fate !
We will be gay, despite her blows.

His Royal Highness claimed the hand of the death-queen,
and led her into supper, followed by the horde
of restorers; while the committee stood behind,
acting in the capacity of waiters ; all but Brummel,
who could not bring himself, even in jest, to assume
his grand-dad's occupation, and who was, moreover,
warned to keep aloof by the frowns of his liege lord.

He saw now the mistake he had made, and was
scheming inwardly as to how it might he retrieved.
A pill would put his liver right, which was the cause
of the trouble. But what bolus might be applied to
the indignation of the Prince of Wales ? Sitting
alone in the deserted dancing-rooms, he considered
this ; but no reply was vouchsafed to the enigma.

Meanwhile, at the supper-table, the fun grew fast
and furious. On the other side of Abigel sat Leoline,
and behind lurked watchful Cy, with menace in his
mien. Opposite sprawled Vere, who glared and
muttered, and tossed off sarcastic toasts to my lord
Northallerton — a proceeding which no one noticed.
The company was as mixed as the most ardent
advocate of the ridotto could desire ; for Jack Eandal
whispered broad compliments to the Duchess of Bedford,
while Cribbb, taking advantage of his disguise,
passed an arm about my lady Buckinghamshire, and
plied her warmly with champagne. Orgies of this
description happily find no place among the pleasures
of a more decorous world, but it is to be hoped that,
even at the commencement of the century, many fine
ladies would have blushed could they have soberly
looked down upon themselves in the midst of the
wine-stained saturnalia. They were "tiled in," so to
speak, and, within the circle of debauch, allowed
themselves and others to take extreme liberties ; for
was not the blood of all rushing with the same headlong

speed? When all were reduced to a like condition
by heat and dancing and drink, what was the
use of trying to apply a bridle, which would be
intolerably irksome and vexatious? To exorcise the
black fiend, his Royal Highness imbibed freely, and
pressed his suit with such ardour on the skulled lady
as fairly to terrify one who was little given to be
frightened.

This was the first masquerade to which Abigel
had ever ventured, and she promised herself it
should be the last. But the girl was too proud to
show how little she was pleased, and forced herself to
smile and nod at her guardian when he rapped his
glass on the table and bawled, " Now isn't she
magnificent ? " Haply, she would have risen and
fled, but that she felt like a ship in a high sea riding
with two anchors. Burly Cy was within call. Under
the table she clasped the slender fingers of Leoline ;
and the hands of both were cold. It was a comfort to
think that one trusty henchman stood behind, while a
sober friend was sitting by her side — two men whom
she could respect, while contempt for all the rest was
rising in heavy waves. The conduct of his Royal
Highness dismayed Miss Kowe. Of course, she was
long since familiarized with the spectacle of gentlemen
in all the phases of intoxication. Were not
specimens always on view in the Noah's Ark ? But
somehow it was painful to be obliged to perceive that

he whom a romantic virgin-worship had hoisted on
a pedestal could be no better than the i-est. His
spasmodic throes of maudlin love were distasteful to
Miss Eowe ; but then she assured herself that, if he
knew who she was — after what had passed she refused
to doff her mask — he would refrain from unpalatable
warmth. Had he not often made love to her before in
playful and respectful fashion, as was clearly his duty
to all pretty women in his capacity of first European
gentleman? Of course, it was all a jest — a broad
one, suited to the background and actors, and as such
permissible ; but, for all that, she was relieved when,
supper over, she could escape to dance with Leoline.
And while she danced she mused over her idol, and
coined excuses for him. Even when half seas over,
he retained his wonderful urbanity. How all-important
in this world of skating is charm of manner !
It matters little what may lie beneath, since we are
seldom called upon in social intercourse to dig below
the surface and find out the stuff of which acquaintances
are made. Charm of manner is like grease to
a wheel, enabling the clumsy vehicle in which we sit
to move over the rough road with comparative
smoothness. And how important it is to join thereto
a sprightliness ; to make the journey as pleasant as
may be to self and others by taking life lightly. So
many of us have a tendency to be over-serious and
solemn, to exaggerate trifles, and sing dirges over

VOL. I. 19

petty worries, to the annoyance of our neighbours,
who have their own troubles, that jesting, of however
idiotic a nature, is surely good for us. Let us talk
nonsense, therefore, oh my brethren, ct veste dehoii-
tonnes, and not be too grand to gabble foolishly, pretending
to be wiser than he who lives next door.

Abigel, being extremely young and ignorant, was
much given to the understanding of people's business
better than themselves — extremely sage and liberal in
the bestowing of advice ; and people smiled and pretended
they would take it. For it is amusing to be
lectured by cherry lips, specially when their owner is
naive and inexperienced. So she pranced up and
down with Leoline, dropping pearls of wisdom at
intervals ; and he thought how pretty she was, how
sweet and low her voice !

The Prince and his following — diminished by two
since Brummel and Sherry had fallen both into disgrace
— knew better than to sport a toe after a heavy
supper. Lord Osmington had not gambled for seven
or eight consecutive hours, and was impatient to
indulge his favourite vice. He proposed pam, therefore,
and, ordering a dozen bottles and a screen to a
snug corner of the card-room, arranged a cosy party.
What happened there no one knew;, for the doors
were closed, and the its and madams were too well
brought up to force themselves into the Regent's
company. Somebody, in order to kill time, suggested

"Country-dances, to be varied by reels, until the hour
of eight, when coffee and chocolate would be served,
and the guests go off to bed. The sinews of youth
are as elastic as their spirits. Hour after hour did
couples skip up and down the middle and under each
other's arms, as if endowed with perpetual motion;
hut a moment came at length when musicians
'Collapsed, and there was a lull, and partners were
glad to move to the side saloon and await the morning
refection. Abigel, with Leoline beside her, leaned
out of a window in the now deserted ball-room, to
eli-ink the early breeze and observe how ugly is the
dawn of which the poets rave, amusing herself in
childish sport the while by pelting the attendants in
the street below with fragments of wax from off her
mask. The hideous skull swung from her arm by its
strings, a shapeless mass, bereft of floral wreath,
and she was telling Leoline that he might walk
home with her, and state his views on the road anent
-fche beauties of opening day.

I used to like the early morning in the country,"
she remarked, with the condescension of a fashionable
lady; *but I'm a woman now, and have learned to
know better."

*you enjoy your life of racket and dissipation?"
Leo asked, with a wistful look of longing and disappointment.
" Since the dear old days, you've left
me far behind. Licked, I think you are transformed —

that another soul has entered in, different from the
one that was my comrade."

We are wide-sundered truly," Abigel agreed; and
Leo sighed, for he misunderstood the purport of the
remark.

"I am hut a page," he thought, ''a penniless
dependent on royal bounty, far below this brilliant,
worldly being." While she, awed by the poetic genius
of her companion, considered him as floating in ether.

Each of us is like a fir tree, with twin leaders," Lea
said, " which sprout side by side, apparently of equal
strength, one of which will by-and-by be sacrificed."

I take the idea," replied Abigel. *^ On reaching
maturity, we have a choice between two natures that
spring from the same germ, alike yet different ; and
om future depends upon which of the two we take and
which abandon ? "

How quick you are ! " returned Leo, in admiration.
On second thoughts, my simile is bad; for, though
we may select, the rejected one may never be
abandoned. 'Tis a conflict till our eyes are closed,
which never ceases — a war between the reasoning
element thin and the emotional. Of our dual
natures, the one is influenced by the sensual, the
other by the spiritual element, and the two are forever
sparring. Hence each human creature with a
soul is a paradox, and hence arises our interest in.
studying human character."

Cyrus was leaning on the window-sill, gazing down
the perspective of Piccadilly, and listening to the
friends' discourse ; but at this juncture he started up,
and withdrew with a growl. Did they talk in this
wise on purpose to exasperate and mystify him ? Did
they themselves understand what they were talking
about ? The reasoning and the emotional, the
spiritual and sensual ! Fiddlededee ! What meaningless
rubbish ! For the thousandth time the
pugilist determined to hate Leoline, and wondered
what the ladies could see in the windy mountebank.
Mischievous Abigel laughed at the unconcealed
dudgeon of her cousin, and drew closer to Leo.

"Of my two natures you think that the bad one
has the mastery ? "

*' Not so," answered her companion gently; " but I
am sure that the whirlpool in which we now revolve
is bad for us. Should we not both have been calmer
and better if we had remained at ,
and been content to vegetate in obscurity ? "

"Fie!" Abigel cried, with a playful tap. "Will
all my furtive sowing produce no ambitious crop ?
You are called by your name, treated by the Princess
with consideration. Does not that fire you to conquer
as your own that which is given by courtesy ? The
attitude of my kind guardian at supper was diverting,
or would have been were I less a prey to nervousness.
He glared at sou with a malevolent aspect

that was quite uncalled for ; looked as if he could eat
you at a mouthful ; and yet the adversary, who prates
sometimes of ousting him, is but little dangerous.
And Blunderbore, too — how he scowled ! At me,
by-the-by, as well as you ; for which he shall be well
punished. Is it not strange that one who is so-anxious
to bloom in the shade should kindle such
fierce enmities ? "

** You despise me ? "

No ; but I lose patience. Either a thing is yom-s
by right and is worth fighting for, or it is not, and
should be resigned with candour. I would have you
don armour like a man, and win or perish ; or openly
resign pretensions."

Leoline's brow grew sadder. " How gladly would
I, but for my mother's words ! You deem me weak.
In this much I am ; for she was wrong to send me
forth on a wild and hopeless quest, and I ought to
have the courage to tell her spirit so. By myself I
could never fight and win this prize — to you I can
admit it — but I can fight, and will, for that which is
worth the winning. Unambitious you call me? Why?
Because I shrink from waging a useless war, in which
I must get worsted."

Then some other warrior must fight, I suppose""
returned Abigel, with a tinge of sarcasm, " while
your nameless worship looks on, applauding."

*'I tell you that I will carve my name when I am

riper, as my Lord Byron has done, whom everybody
runs after to touch the hem of his garment."

Abigel looked up with guileless faith, and, touched
by the enthusiasm which shone out of her companion's
face, was sorry for her harshness. " A poet's career
is glorious," she said, "if he have strength to toil up
the steep Olympian hill and pluck the bays."

Behave me, for that task I have the strength, if
not for the other."

To be a great poet ; that would indeed be fine. A
creator with the divine power to people a world with
men and women of his own fashioning. The more
glorious, since the gift is given to so few. Many try
to create, and the result is a sad array of stuffed and
deformed pygmies.

"Oh, Leo," cried Miss Kowe, "be a great poet,
and forgive a silly girl's peevish chatter. Oh, the
lovely legend of Pygmalion ! You shall soon be
Pygmalion, and I will kneel and adore the perfect
beings so soon as you shall have modelled and
breathed them into life ! "

Abigel, so dictatorial just now, beamed with ecstasy.
Hero-worship was a necessity to her large and ardent
nature. She had the delightful faculty of dressing
up a doll and prostrating herself before it, forgetting
whose hands had supplied the finery. And ought we
not to envy the mortals who can do this ? If a dish
to us is silver, what matter if it be plated ? He is an

unkind wight who points out the absence of the hall-mark.
Not that I would suggest that Leoline was
plated. Not a bit of it ; but, as I have had occasion
to hint before, he was a round peg in a square hole,
of too contemplative a turn to be good at action — one
of those persons of whom we are fond, whilst declaring
with head shakes that they are their own enemies.
Of undoubtedly superior intellect, infinitely above the
people among whom he moved, it was quite probable
that, under favouring conditions, he might some day
seize a pen and produce something that would live.
Meanwhile, he felt choked and stifled by his encourage
was compelled to drift with the turbid stream, and
was low-spirited in consequence, weighed down by a
sense of injustice. Abigel remembered Milton and
the long years of dreamy pondering whose result was
Paradise Lost," and beheld in Leo another Milton.
To girlish ardour what are years ? Her enthusiasm,
kindled from Leo's, overleaped the gap. On hearing
of a thing as to be done, she was apt to consider it as
finished, and fly into rapturous transports at the
joyful results of an achievement, while it was as yet
in embryo.

The young lady was called down by a rude shock
from the realms of poesy to earth. The card-party,
which had lasted many hours, broke up. The door of
the play-room opened, and his Royal Highness issued
thence, flushed and tottery, in company with Vere,

who was less steady still. The wrinkles of annoyance
were gone, thanks to the charming of the bottle — had
given place to grins of unreasoning content.

Don't 'apologize, dear boy ! " Vere was mumbling
thickly. " You've won, and honourable man pays.
Debt of honour's sacred. She won't mind. Try
Balmy-Brutal."

*' Who'll tell her? "What fun!" hiccupped his
Royal Highness, mightily tickled by something, and
blissfully unaware that the august casey was awry.
*^ There sh' is, little saucebox. To think I didn't know
her ! But we'll be even. I'll speak, Vere. Hear
what she says."

** Balmy-Brutal," solemnly advised my lord.

The two gentlemen piloted each other successfully
to the remote window where Abigel sat, and, swaying
side by side like willows, leered down at the maiden.
Presaging something unpleasant, she rose to move
away, as she was in the habit of doing when in the
presence of persons who were the worse for liquor, but
was nailed to the floor by the words which tumbled
from the lips of Lord Osmington.

** All gone," he spluttered. *' Trees must go.
Birnam Dunsinane. You, too, my girl — cursed luck ! "

What ! " ejaculated Leoline.

*' True as gospel," the Piegent affirmed, slapping
his royal thigh with a hilarious whoop. *' He lost ten
thousand to Alvanley, and hearing me declare my

flame for the death-queen, said, * Demy, you shall
win her if you can, for she is mine.' And then it all
came out that it was you. Pretty clever puss to take
me in. I like — love you for it. There, didn't I say
I'd love you in real earnest ? Give me a k-k-kiss."

Abigel's bosom heaved and her tongue clove to the
roof of her mouth, while she struck her palms together,
wreathing trembling fingers as she stared at the
Prince of Wales. She could not speak, for her voice
was gone as under the shock of a douche. The glittering
palace in which she reigned, the gilded home
which she had learned with careless childlike trust
to look upon as hers, had fallen on her head in a
cataract of disjointed masonry, and she was stunned.
Cophetua had dressed his beggar-maid in silk and
velvet, and had turned her out into the street. This
was bad enough. For the moment, worst of all, the
chief figure in the Walhalla of hero-worship had
slipped from his pedestal, and was swaying opposite
with bloodshot eyes, a crooked wig, a clammy skin,,
and breath that reeked of brandy.

Wounded, stupefied, the girl gave a long low moan,
and would have fallen, but for Leoline, who with
flashing eyes and a face of ghastly whiteness clasped
her tightly to his breast.

You ignoble beast ! You ruffianly, base miscreant
! " he cried, glowering sternly at the intoxicated
peer. "What did you pay for her, that like a serf

she is to be bartered in the slave-market ? Are you
too stupid, too bHudly besotted, to read the warning
that's writ upon the wall ? Must we borrow Mother
Guillotine ? It is you and hell-hounds such as you
who will steep our land in blood, as France was
steeped. Already too long-suffering, the patience of
the people's at the ebb ! "

Lord Osmington, having propped himself with a
skill born of long usage in the recessed angle of the
window, turned an astonished glare on the bold
speaker. Were scathing words like these applied to
him, the Earl of Osmington, and by a cockatrice
whom he had fed out of his hand ? Here was a pretty
state of things ! *' Out of the mouths of babes and
sucklings" is all very well; but here was a greater
prodigy'. A mouse was erect upon hind-legs with a
flourish of menacing whisker ! The ragged, hungry
urchin whom my lord, out of mistaken kindness, had
clothed and 'prenticed to a decent blacksmith was
developing, as might have been expected, into a
miracle of ingratitude. Earl of Northallerton, forsooth
! Pah ! a vulgar, snappish spitfire. Was it
not plain that the waspish churl was a beggar's brat
offspring of a pedlar, a scavenger, a costard-monger
viscous scum ? And here was his housekeeper's
niece — whose father was a gipsy, and of course a
pickpocket — a chit of whom he had been good enough
to make a plaything for a while, putting on tragedy

airs like a duke's daughter, preparing for heroics !
How wise the man who warned us to distrust first
impulses, for they are always good. It served my
lord right for doing an unselfish action. It was out
of his usual way, and he would, accepting the lesson,
never do anything good-natured any more; of that,
as he supported himself in the angle, he was murkily
determined.

The head of his Royal Highness was stronger than
his friend's. Not being so far gone, Abigel's scared
look of quailing horror awakened him to a sense of
the situation. A woman who respected herself was
always safe in his hands. 'Twas unfortunate that
there were so few ladies about the Court who did
respect themselves. Much would be made of this by
the Kensington clique, he reflected, unless it was
hushed up. Could the young lady not perceive, he
explained, that it was all a drunken frolic, which had
been carried too far, perhaps, but was a joke for all
that? It became female perfection to take a jest
as it was intended, and not to take folly au grand
series with great eyes that were full of thunder. If
there was any slavery in the matter, it was H.R.H.
who was the slave, not she. Had he not said at
supper that he was the slave of beauty? Would
the sweet darling, smoothing away that ugly frown,
permit herself to be conducted to the tea-room?
The clock was marking half-past eight. One dish

of tea and then to roost, forgetting the follies of
the night.

Abigel looked sadly at the Prince without answering.
The scales had fallen from her eyes. If my
lord was capable of staking her at cards, what might
he next attempt? Was she not standing amid the
ruins of her crumbled palace, surveying its roofless
wreck? Could a few soft words from H.E.H. make
good the damage done ?

^' Take me hence, Leo," she murmured faintly ;
^' anywhere except to that house ; " and, leaning on
the companion of childhood, moved wearily adown
the stairs. Her energies were numbed by the revelation
of her real position, and the prospect which in her
mind's eye she saw; and, unlike the brisk imperious
maiden of the past, she allowed Leo to wrap her ina
cloak with dull submission, and fasten the hood
under her chin. She glided along as one in sleep,
with a heavy nightmare conviction that nothing
mattered any more. The delicate mental fibres of
the girl's being quivered under a sharp and unexpected
stab with a soreness that was physical pain, and she
was devoured by a craving for solitude, where the
dismembered pieces of the puzzle might be gathered
together and fitted in a novel shape.

Jolly curves and dimples on the Regent's visage
gave place to haggard lines. No one likes to have his
professions of love — even when offered in badinage —

£hung in his face, neither is it agreeable to be treated
with open scorn by a couple of dependent fledgelings.
Everything to-night had gone wrong with his Koyal
Highness. Things were always going wrong, . but
never so disastrously as now. What an accumulation
of regrettable circumstances ! Charlotte was obstinate ;
the mob was rude ; Brummel had been mortally
offensive, Sherry unpardonably insolent (how dared
he say that his master had ratted ?) ; the Dreadful
Woman had bearded him — carefully guarded as he
was, had obtruded her odious presence under his very
nose. And to crown all, here was a coarse piece of
foolish nonsense taken seriously, which would be
bruited about the town with distortion and piquant
fioriture, and used as a lever by the crafty Megaera for
the stirring of new devil's broth. Was not a prince
to be pitied who, having attended an evening party
in order to forget his woes, had found a new pack
awaiting him ? Even Vere, crony of old days, and
cause of the last misfortune, instead of being contrite
and sympathetic, and trying to undo what had been
-done, was grunting and cursing like a fatuous imbecile,
while trying to stand upright on his legs. *' Cockatrice
! " he was repeating, with that painful effort of
the eyebrows to keep the lids raised which is so
comical in drunken men. 'but's all right — hash
settled — the puppy ! "

*' Whose hash ? " demanded the Kegent. His own
brain was growing clear under the pressure of lugubrious



thought. "No more scrapes, I beg. "We've
had quite enough for to-night. What's that noise?
A bra^-1 below; some men fighting. Really this is
too indecent."

The Regent made his way to the landing, and, supported
by the banisters, looked down. Most of the
guests were gone, but the sparse sprinkling that
remained had formed a circle in the hall, in the midst
of which three men were buffeting. '' Shame, shame ! "
somebody vociferated. *' Two to one ! " " They're
professional bruisers, by the lord Harry ! " shouted
another. "I'll back the Pink of Bow ! " " I'm for
the Sprig of Myrtle! " "Come out of that and let
'em have it out!" yelled a sixth, as, seizing the
slightest of the three, he dragged him out of the ring.
With angry surprise the Grand Signor beheld two of
his own fistic bodyguard, with dominoes in shreds,
pummelling away as if at Moulsey Hurst ; while in the
slight figure, torn and bleeding, he recognized his
wife's page, the haughty and plain-spoken champion
of Miss Eowe. The appearance of the Prince put
an end to the encounter, and he insisted upon
being informed as to the cause of so unseemly a disturbance.


"It's a pity," grumbled Caleb Piano, "for I was
giving him a hiding, and a real good 'un. Make up
a match, gents, and force him to it, the coward ! I'll
undertake to beat him. When he did me last time I
wasn't sober."

"All the world knows I drubbed you!" panted
Cyrus. "But have your way. I'm sick of taunts.
Osmington House and late hours are bad for us folk*
Give me a month's training, and you'll see which is
the better man."

Brag's a poor dog ! " sneered his rival.

"If you want another beating, you shall have it,'^
cried Mr. SmaUey.

At fitting time and place," interrupted the Prince
of Wales. "The hall of Wattier's at nine a.m. is
neither. Who is the aggressor in this squabble, and
what has this youth to do with it ? "

Miss Kowe was under my escort, sir" panted
Leoline, excitedly; "and we hadn't gone fifty yards
when that man and another, who has vanished,
hustled us. I struck that one in the mouth, and,
for the lady's sake, made the best of my way back
here ; but on the steps the other tripped me up, and
I should have fared badly in the scuffle but for
SmaUey, who came to my assistance."

Not for love of you, jackanapes," grunted Cyrus.
"But I can't stand by and see foul play, specially
when Miss Eowe's concerned. That Ann's a disgrace
to our cloth. I've said it behind his back, and repeat
it to his face. The idea of a great chap like him, and
another lout, waylaying this shrimp ! You're low ;
that's about what you are— low — disgusting low ! "
And, with this decidedly unfavourable expression of

opinion, Mr. Smalley picked up his torn domino, and,
with a bow to his Koyal Highness, prepared to go his
way.

"Hark to that!" jeered Caleb. 'how good weare
at blister ! Low or high, I'd have made you sing
small, my hearty, if we had not been stopped."

I'm out of practice," objected Cy.

'' Is it to be a match, gents all ? " the other asked,
with an appealing ogle in his little eyes. " I can take
a real beating as well as any man, and like the other
all the better for it, if it's straight'; but, s'elp me,
that other time was unfair — the umpire allowed as
much — and it's only proper I should [have another
chance."

"Yes, yes; it shall be done shipshape," cried
Cribbb (who had been asleep under the stairs), bustling
up, "I give you my honour on it. But what's all
this ? Shake hands. Don't stand showing your teeth
like snarling dogs ! Shake hands, I say."

Cyrus deliberately placed his hands behind his
back. "I'm damned if I do!" he declared, with
stm-dy emphasis. " My hand's honest, and clasps
no bully's. Why did you dog their steps to a lonely
corner, and then try to pick a quarrel, eh ? Explain
that before the gentlemen."

It was off the square, surely, if so be as he did
it," admitted Cribbb, with a dubious headshake.

"Never you mind why," gibed Caleb, with an ugly

VOL. I. 20

leer of cunning. " You and I serve the same master,
and it don't become you to interfere with me or him."

"You were acting by order of Lord Islington'*
exclaimed the Prince of Wales.

"I didn't say so," rem-ned Caleb, sulkily — for he
was warned to prudence by the sight of that noble
peer creeping with cautious lurches down the staircase.
'' I never said as I did, and I ain't going to tell
what I did or why I did it — there ! If you gents like
to make a match of it, I'm game; if not, I'll say
good day ; " and, touching his forelock with a sweeping
nod to the assembly, the sphinx-like Kann departed.

Singular ! " the Prince murmured, frowning. " I
wonder if it might be ? How he pursues this lad !
May a man elect to be a rogue from choice ? It is
strange, and I don't like it."

Leoline uttered a cry. Abigel ! Where was she ?
The last he had seen of her in the confusion of the
scuffle was standing on the club steps, with distracted
aspect, while tears were coursing down her face. She
was gone ! By herself — whither ? No one had seen
her go, but there was no doubt that she had disappeared.


Chapter XII.

AWAKENING.

How vain an amusement is castle-building, and yet
how incorrigible we wretched mortals are m impaling
tier on tier of phantom bricks ! I protest that the
perusal of biographies is the saddest of recreation, for
they all preach the same gruesome sermon, sing the
same melancholy carol. They all tell of creatures
who hoped on when there was no hope, deceived
themselves with impossible illusions, erected and
fm-wished edifices which they were never to inhabit.
'Tis well that the future is triple veiled from us, or
who would escape suicide ?

Legendary lore is silent as to the mental sensations
of the Sleeping Beauty on receiving that kiss. Did
she take up her train of thought where it was left
long ago, or, while she slept, was her mind working
in dreams — just as the hair and finger-nails of the
sleepers kept on growing — landing her at the end
of the protracted siesta with quite a different set of
thoughts and feelings ? Or was she so engrossed

with the sight of the lovely prince that there was
no room in her fluttering heart and train for aught
but his image ? One thing we do know, which is,
that she awoke to joy and delight and everything
that was nice, with a prospect of living " happy ever
after " — it was fairyland, you know, not this absurd
earth of ours — in which she differed from Miss Abigel
Kowe, our heroine, whose waking vision was horrified
by monster spiders, centipedes, scorpions, what not,
immersed in grisly cobwebs draped with mould.

You have not, thus far, been gratified with very
much of the inner workings of our young lady's mind.
She has been asleep all this time, accepting pleasant
things as they came without much questioning;
shutting eyes and opening ruddy lips to receive the
juicy cherries, without considering the chances of a
snail being popped into her mouth instead of some
ripe fruit. She had no absorbing belief in the perfect
goodness of human nature, such as some young things
enjoy ; for early in the day she was made aware that
grandcourt Pentecost drank too much whiskey, and
could slap with horny palm. But being untroubled
so far by the signs of any big wickedness, such as
appals us now and then by an abrupt display of its
ugliness, she amused herself by looking sternly at
small uncertain sins, and tilting at them with a
valiant little lance. Thus was it that, as a child, she
grew into the habit of lecturing willing Cyrus ; and,

deeming Leoline's apprenticeship to be a ^^Tong, she
applied her energies to the righting of it. When
grandcourt Pentecost sent her up to town, with short,
sharp lectures as to how she should behave, the
oddness of the situation she was called upon to fill
never troubled her young innocence. If it was not
right that she should go, grandcourt would not have
sent her. Madam Pentecost had been content to
warn the girl as to holding her own with proper
spirit, a lesson hardly needed by one who was truthful
and steady by nature. There were curious doings
in London which she could not but see ; yet she did
not conceive it necessary to scream and run away, for
in the days when she was young folks were less
squeamish than now. They called spades spades,
and openly admitted the existence of things which we
pretend to ignore, passing them by quietly without
protest, as flowers on the tree of human frailty which
must needs bloom, but which we need not pluck ; and
I doubt very much whether they where any wickeder
than wee, who double-lock our doors upon our peccadilloes,
and prate a great deal about virtue. Just as
in the past queen consorts accepted the fact of royal
mistresses without a blush, so did honest Abigel
accept the Noah's Ark and all its painted inhabitants
without a tremor. It was never suggested, by hint
or whisper, that she was to hold communion with
that contingent of houris ; and she was taught by the

example of many ladies of undoubted virtue, that it
is inconvenient to be always living in a condition of
shocked propriety, and that, if you inhabit Some, you
must tacitly accept the doings of the naughty city.
In her eyes the position of adopted daughter to a
confirmed libertine did not appear untenable. She
did not see much of my lord Osmington when mad
drunk, and never saw anything of the houris, except
by accident on rare occasions. Her interviews alone
with her guardian were generally of a morning, when
his tongue was dry and temples throbbing ; when he
felt prematurely old and crumpled, and had not the
spirit or the wish to be rude. Indeed, the contrast of
the snowdrop and the tulips pleased my lord, who
was unaccountably tetchy about Miss Eowe, and was
wont to rap out extra strings of expletives if she was
lightly spoken of, vowing that he would have in: his
life, if he chose, one bit of pure romance. So, with
the adaptability of youth, Miss Eowe accepted, in
simple faith, a place in the world that was comfortable
enough. People told her that when she married,
as of course she would and well, the self-appointed
guardian would, no doubt, provide a dowry ; and,
nothing loth, she developed into a woman of fashion,
doing as other women of fashion did, honoured by allas
the friend of the future sovereign. As we have
seen, she went out a good deal into society; was
tolerated by the great censor, received by the goddesses

i

of Almack's. Sure none had a better right to build
up phantom bricks. Never before had she attended
a masquerade, and promised herself, in the course of
the proceedings, that on the morrow she would rate
her guardian severely. He ought to have told her
what it was like — have advised her to stay away.
Long before supper, when the tongues of the guests
became unloosed, my ladies Cooper, Castlereagh, and
the rest had retired, or Miss Kowe would have thrown
herself on their protection. But, then, she felt comforted
by the contiguity of Leoline and cousin Cy, and
thought she could rely on her own tact to escape
insult. Moreover, she was sharp enough to know
that nought was to be gained by crying out amid a
company who hated prudes. Then, shaken by a
rough hand, she woke, and horrid was the waking.
The earth was yawning all around, the phantom
bricks were showering about her ears, the ground
was littered with illusions broken. The man to
whom she looked for protection had deliberately
staked his charge upon a dice-throw; had actually
bartered her away as he might a horse or dog ; then,
reeling up, had complacently resigned the prize into
the hands of a new possessor ! The maiden was
struck dumb with helpless horror. The equivocal
nature of her position smote her like a thunderbolt.
Her eyes were opened, and for the first time she saw.
The idea that my lord might wish to marry her was

put away long since. Did he not talk of dying a
bachelor ? What had the pack of libertines, male
and female, been thinking of her all this time ? No
wonder that Pepita and Chiquita should be half crazed
with jealousy. She was a lamb that had been daintily
fed for future slaughter, and all the world must have
seen her in this light. How disgraceful ! The Prince
of Wales, always so kind and courteous, appraised her
as of little worth, or he would not have come prancing
out of the play-room with a broad grin upon his
sublime countenance to claim his new chattel. All
this passed through the unhappy damsel's mind like
a lightning flash, and she was scorched and burnt up
with shame. Oh, for wings to fly away to the cold far
north where human creatures dwell not ! White shaggy
bears and walruses would be far more desirable companions
than wicked, wicked man ! Had not Leoline
suddenly clasped her ; had she not felt his sympathetic
hug, seen the indignation in his eyes, there is no knowing
what she would have done in the overwhelming
horror of despair and helplessness. She would have
felt utterly alone and friendless, have jumped out of
window possibly to escape from the degrading world ;
for it struck her as possible that Madam Pentecost
might deliberately have sold her niece for a price to
a man who, weary already of his bargain, had staked
her on a throw. If such were indeed the case, to
whom might she fly for succour in extremity ? Then

Leoline clasped her in his protecting arms, and his
blue eyes, usually so mild and dreamy, glared with
rage. In that there Alas much comfort. So, instead
of leaping out of window and breaking her neck, she
placed her arm within her playfellow's, and quietly
walked away, like the sensible girl she was. But the
poor thing's ordeal was not over yet ; the bricks were
tumbling still. She had vaguely cried, '' Take me
anywhere, except to Osmington House ; " and they
were going they knew not whither, when the ruffian
Ann, and a still more forbidding colleague with a
broken nose and heavy jowl, followed and picked a
quarrel. Abruptly awakened, she was morbidly on
the look-out for danger. What was the object of
these men ? Of course to carry her off, beyond reach
of help. For his own sake, they could not wish to
fight with insignificant Leoline, who craved naught
from any one but peace and quietness. No doubt
there was a coach hard by, and she would be thrust
into it and whisked away. What a wicked world,
each path beset with peril ! And then, in broad
Piccadilly, under the club portico, came the fracas.
On her account, men were belabouring each other
with sledge-hammer fisticuffs, shrieking out curses,
and rolling in the dust and up again, while spectators
laughed and clapped. What a scandal ! It was too
much. Maddened by a sense of degradation and
wounded pride, the maiden fled from the scene, a

smitten hind making for the covert, there to lie down
and die. With flying feet she sped along, caring not
where she went, provided it was out of hearing of
the scuffle ; and people were too much amused by the
combat to mark the direction of her flight. Down the
broad thoroughfare of St. James's Street she ran, along
the path by the pleasure-grounds of Carlton House,
and never stopped until she reached the umbrageous
shade of the trees beyond the Mall. There, out of
breath, trembling from head to foot, she sank upon
a seat, and, pressing cold fingers to her brow, strove
hard to think. But her brain was tempest-racked.
Whirling round and round, it refused its office. She
still saw the handsome Kegent, whom once she admired
so, prancing towards her with that satyr grin; still
heard the thud of fists, the shrill execrations and
heartless yells of the bystanders. Placing fingers in
her ears, she shuddered down upon the ground, and
lay there moaning; while the unfeeling birds, who
had not been all night at a ridotto, hopped with
saltatory frisks from bough to bough, chirping discordant
music.

It was all over now — the dream of pleasant
possibilities. She was quite, quite alone. The Prince
and my lord were friends. Even Leoline and Cy
were odious ; for they formed part of the horrid
limning, which might never be sponged from out her
memory.

Incongruous, idle visions flitted by, seen as in
ii glass darkly owing to the vividness of that other
picture that Alas burnt in with red-hot irons. The
pilgrims of the Mayflower, on a rippling sea, with
bellowing sails filled by a jocund breeze. Happy
pilgrims ! Sodom and Gomorrah were out of sight,
never to be again revisited. Their faces were turned
towards the brilliant west, to a land that knew them
not. Ah, what a pure and joyful prospect ! Abigel's
soul yearned for a land that knew her not ; for the
companionship of a people who would never hear of
that degrading scene, that uprising of mud wherewith
she was smirched for ever. In the first fierce reaction
after the stunning blow, each palpitating sinew
wrenched and tore. Oblivion — nothing but oblivion —
could salve this wound. It was her turn to cry for
Lethe. If some one just then had held out a poisoned
chance, how gladly would she have gulped the
draught !

By-and-by, while the booming of a distant sea
dulled her perceptions, she became aware that something
intercepted the warm morning sunshine, and
looked up. A tall lady, in a wide-brimmed black hat,
with drooping feathers, was smiling down at her, and
holding forth a slender hand, in which there was
no chalice — a beautiful lady of mature years, whose
luxuriant brown hair was streaked with silver, around
whose stately head the aureole of sorrow shimmered.

Abigel knew her well by sight, and had learned to
venerate her name; but the two had never spoken.
Now the sweet smile, chastened by vanquished pain,
seemed to pour balm on her own trouble. Who may
look upon the rugged furrows — scars of an anguish
that is past — without humbly doffing the hat in
reverence, and praying that, when our turn arrives,
we, too, may conquer ? We pass, as it were, a-tiptoe
with bated breath, as we would a corpse; for there
is something awful in the calm patience which has
triumphed, surmounting earthly grief.

The mind of the maiden quivered less, and her
heart went out to the lady.

"Miss Eowe, I think?" the latter said. "I've
admired your beauty often."

Mrs. Fitzherbert ! " ejaculated Abigel.

"You are out betimes. I, too, am enjoying my
morning walk. At Brighton I always take my exercise
while others are abed."

It was plain by her attitude and deep despondency
that something was amiss with Abigel, but Mrs.
Fitzherbert was not one to intrude upon another's
confidence without encouragement. Gazing from her
balcony on the busy Steine, she had frequently seen
Miss Eowe surrounded by admirers, had heard her
dubbed Euphrosyne ; and, worldly-wise, had wondered
how a career would end, so odd yet bright in its
beginning.

"' I have been out all night," Abigel said. '' Not in
the streets ; perchance 'twould have been better if
I had ! This plain white frock is a gala robe."

"Ah, what can we not do when we are young?"
said the older lady. 'once I, too, could dance all
night, and next day be fresh as a lark. My heart and
feet were equally light once ; but that was long ago.
Where was your party ? "
At Wattier's club."

"A masquerade!" said Mrs. Fitzherbert, looking
disapproval.

"Not a fit place for me, you think?" responded
Abigel. " What does it signify ? A girl's repute is a
frail shallop. The sooner suspense is ended by its
foundering, the better for the pilot."

Mrs. Fitzherbert pressed her lips together and was
silent.

"I suppose, as we're dropped down here without
portion of our own," the girl remarked bitterly,
there's no harm in studying our pig stye ? "

You have studied," asked the other, " and learnt
what ? "

That the world is hollow ; that all men are
knaves."

"Avoid extremes," replied Mrs. Fitzherbert, with
wannth. " Believe me, who have seen much of the
world ; though there is much knavery, no doubt it is
a fora of madness. How would our globe get on

unless goodness was the natural tendency of all sane
minds ? "

You can think that ! " cried Abigel, surprised.

Yes. Without such a creed, I could not consent
to live. We must be indulgent to the mad and pity
them, and steady our own minds with engrossing
occupation. Thank Heaven, I have a sweet girl
whose training engrosses all my interest."

"I have seen Miss Seymour. Giddy fool that I
have been, skating over ice without caring to gauge
the depth below ! Leoline was right : retirement and
obscurity are the better part."

Success is certainly a snare, for the prizes in
the mundane lottery are gained more often by oursins
than by our virtues; but such sentiments are
more becoming in me than in you, for you are on the
threshold of your life, while the shadow of the closing
door is upon mine. Is there anything that you would
like to say?" Mrs. Fitzherbert continued gently.
*your hand is feverish. Are you not well? How
hot your brow ! Lean upon me — so."

Abigel nestled close to the elder lady in her fresh
morning dress, and, laying a weary head upon her
shoulder, poured forth her artless tale. The recital
did her good, and she felt strangely better, accustomed
as she was to manage others and order them
about. Mrs. Fitzherbert listened with drawn lips,
and remained for a time in reverie.

''A singular tangle," she said at last. *' Sure milord
Osmington ere this is penitent. We must
recollect that he was not sober."

Go back to him ? Never ! " cried impetuous Miss
Eowe. '' It is no longer possible. Thanks to him, I
have eaten of the tree of the knowledge of evil, and
I know too much. The glitter of this town is loathsome
to me now. I abhor its sin and my own
uselessness. What has been may never be again. A
broken bell may peal no more with full deep sound.
I am another woman."

*but what will you do? Never was maid so
strangely circumstanced. You have had the education
of a lady of rank ; have been brought up to mingle
with the noblest in the land. Given that you are
prepared to renounce all this, what then ? "

I will work. I should be so glad to work. How
horrible is a woman's uselessness ! "

Mrs. Fitzherbert smiled as she patted the flushed
cheek. " 'Twould be hard," she said, "for one who's
shone at Almack's to turn dairymaid. Even that
requires 'prentice ship, or the pail will be kicked
over. Or would you teach the juvenile idea ? Or
will you parade the street, singing, 'Buy my moss
roses and dainty sweet-briar ' ? "

Abigel bit her lip and hung her head. Lord
Osmington's patronage was, indeed, an empty boon.
Under his auspices she had been educated in little

that could be of practical utility. 'Twas cruel to have
taught her nothing but what was above her proper
station.

"I will do anything," she cried, with vague
decision, " that will draw me from myself. Oh for
some hard work to occupy my mind ! "

'sin these degenerate days," returned the other,
a lady can do naught but tambourwork. Men have
hosts of outlets for their energies whereby they may
escape from themselves ; a girl must be content to sit
at home and gnaw her heart. A pity you were not
married ere it came to this."

I will marry Cyrus ! " cried rueful Abigel. " My
cousin worships the ground I tread on."

A farmer, I suppose ? Can he support a wife ? "
asked Mrs. Fitzherbert; and Miss Eowe turned
scarlet. Somehow she could not confess to this
refined lady that Mr. Smalley, whom she proposed
to honour, was a pugilist. " Come, trust in
me," said Mrs. Fitzherbert, presently. "Eemember
that rank herbs make the best medicines, and that
grief is poor diet. Your case is curious and interesting,
and I will do for you that which I thought never to
have done." There was a sombre look in Mrs. Fits
eyes which frightened Abigel.

"Nay, you shall do naught for me that would
cause pain," she cried.

''He is in part responsible for this," the other

murmured ; " and I am more jealous for his good
name, alas ! than he is himself. Listen. You are
alone and friendless, as you say ; for the world's butterflies
care not if you live or die. Trust to me, then,
to set this straight. I will communicate with the
Prince of Wales" — here the sweet voice quavered a
Httle. *' He would not wish, I know, that an innocent
young life should be wrecked by an instant of folly.
Lord Osmington owes you reparation ; for no man
has a right to pluck a maiden from her sphere, unfit
her for her station, then fling her forth to perish."

*^ Oh, indeed, indeed," entreated Abigel, while,
unuttered and confused, she succumbed to a calmer
will, '*I could not go back to him — never! Sure, if
a person who has contributed to my happiness at one
time makes me wantonly wretched at another, I am
under little obligation to him. I owe a duty to
myself. Pray do not ask me to return."

*'I ask you now to come with me, as my guest.
Will that be too terrible an infliction ? Then we will
see what is to be done, and trim our sails accordingly.
Your inclination shall not be forced. Do you
refuse ? "

Miss Piowe looked up into the beautiful, sad face,
and her eyes were filled with tears. " Refuse ? How
fortunate is Miss Seymour!" she sobbed. ''My
mamma died, like hers, when I was a little thing,
and I never found another ! "

VOL. I. 21

The two ladies strolled hand ^'n hand across the
Park to a house by the river-side. Miss Seymour was
watering some flowers at an open lattice, and as soon
as she discerned the lady with the large hat and
feathers she waved a gladsome greeting.

CHAPTEK Xii

BY THAMES SIDE.

Under the auspices of Miss Seymour and her new protectress,
Abigel recovered from the shock which had so
grievously distracted her, and to all outward appearances
became herself again; but scales when they
have fallen may not be replaced, and Abigel, though
given to laughter as of yore, had serious moments
of brooding ill-suited to her years. A few days after
the ridotto, Mrs. Fitzherbert, who had taken time
to consider the matter in all its bearings, despatched
her young ladies on a distant errand, and, left alone,
set about a careful toilet, and prepared to receive
a visitor. Having retired from gay society, she dwelt
entirely at Brighton now, receiving old friends during
the season, occupying herself at other times with the
education of Miss Seymour. The grand mansion in
Tilney Street had changed hands long since, and
whenever it became necessary to visit London she
put up at this quiet cottage by the water-side at Westminster,
where an old servant of hers let lodgings.

She sat and waited, pretending to read a book ; but
her thoughts were far away, digging among the years
that were buried, gazing at each fossil fragment as
she turned it up, looking on it with calm survey, as
if it had not once been soaked with her heart's blood,
drenched with her tears. She had been disciplined
in the great school, and was wont to declare that
nothing could touch her now ; and yet when she heard
a well-remembered step upon the gravel, listened for
the familiar knock, she was forced to press a hand
upon her heart to still its fluttering.

"Maria," cried the Prince of Wales, who, perceiving
the delicately chiselled profile he had loved
so well, entered the parlour by the open window,

"Maria, I am so glad " The words died upon

his lips. The banish swing with which he arrived
gave way to a less elastic gait ; the flood of the past
swept over him. That was brackish, but not quite unpleasant.
The momentary flush on the cheek of his
old love faded into pallor as Mrs. Fitzherbert held
forth her hand with a sad smile.

"You find me aged," she said. " I'm quite an old
woman, while you bear your years right gallantly*
Our sex has the worst of it in all the affairs of life.
It was kind of you to come. I thought we should
never have spoken to one another any more ; but I
was wrong in that, you see, as in so many other
things. We have heard all about the masquerade ! "

She shook a finger, as at a hoy caught apple-stealing,
and the Regent looked annoyed.

"Of course," he complained, "you've heard all
the harm that woman's friends can tell of me.
Scandal travels fast. It was a stupid business, and
I'm more disgusted than I can say. To make it
worse, the silly girl has run away and drowned herself
— for fear of me, I suppose. They used not to
think me so repulsive."

Too true, alas ! " sighed Mrs. Fitzherbert.

How can a man with feelings help himself, if they
will throw themselves at his head ? "

"How indeed! The prodigy who abstained from
throwing herself at your head is here."

Here ! " cried the Regent, starting. " And you've
sent for me "

Not to sm-render your lost property. She's your
own, I presume, since you won her. Fidoncf I've
despatched her on an errand, and she won't be back
for hours. She is alive and well, and has not committed
felo-dense on your account ; so set your mind
at rest. But you and that bad man owe her something.
I've thought it over. It will be best for the
ghi to resume her place for a while, if Lord Osmington
wil promise to behave decently. What are his intentions
with regard to the poor thing? That is what
I call on you to discover, and to use your influence
also with regard to a marriage with somebody or

other, if not with him. After this esclandre she must
be married as soon as possible. If you gave the hint,
Lady Castlereagh, I'm sure, would see to it ; for she
likes the girl, and her position is ridiculous."

The Kegent glanced sideways at his old love with
a whimsical smile. What inveterate matchmakers
are women, even when they have burned their fingers !
Here was an elderly party discussing the fascinating
necessity of marriage with [commonplace deliberation,,
as though she had not had too much of it in her own
person ; as though the tying of the nuptial knot had
not caused her own discomfiture and led to unutterable
disaster.

'* Why you should be so deeply interested, I don't
know," he remarked ; " but it shall be as you wish."

"It is on yom' account I am interested. To save
you from your own imprudence. You've enough on
your conscience, I should think, without the addition
of this girl's undoing ! "

Then you still care ? " the Regent whispered softly.
Oh, Maria, when I-'got your message my soul leaped,
for I hoped "

"Hoped?"

That perhaps — perhaps you had changed your
mind, and would come back to me. Practically I'm
a widower, you know."

Mrs. Fitzherbert withdrew the hand which the
Prince had pressed to his lips, and a severe look

settled on lier face. "Will blundering men never

'G>

learn to read us?" she exclaimed. **I can forgive
you, as one can forgive all to the being who holds
one's heart, and can bow to hard necessity, but I
cannot forget Fox's speech in Parliament. How could
I go back to you, after his formal declaration of my
infamy ? "

*' Before God we are man and wife, and never can
be otherwise," George murmured, clasping the lady's
hand again, and twirling a quaint split ring, with a
date engraved on it, that she wore upon her finger.
*' My father has the wreck of both our lives to answer
for, and is suffering for it now. I am worse off than
you, Maria."

You are not happy ? When I gave you up I acted
for the best. A member of my Church ought never to
have married one of yours. In that we sinned, and
are both punished,"

'* Not you, not you ! " exclaimed the Regent with
emotion. "You are the best woman I have ever
known, the only one I really ever loved ; and yet I've
proved your ruin. Unfortunate, ill-starred wretch !
Our union was not legal by the law of England, but
I might have remained true to you, and stood steadfast
by your side, instead of giving way. My father
brutally deceived me "

"Hush, hush ! Let sleeping dogs lie. I could live
content if you were happy."

Happy ! " scoffed the Beget, lashed by a sense of
undeserved misfortune. " Never was a man so miserable,
so misconstrued. Even the Pavilion is made
a vehicle for abuse. If I choose to erect an Oriental
palace, why shouldn't I ? A subject like Byron can
be Greek, and everybody's pleased, declaring him
amusingly eccentric ; if I elect to be Turkish, I'm set
down at once as mad and a fool. Oh, Maria, I wish
I were a fish ! "

^^Afish?"

Yes. They've no cares, and no one worries 'em.
Have you ever strolled along a riverbank and watched
the contemplative trout indolently sucking down his
flies, placidly restful, and at ease? No domestic
anxieties even; no troublesome wives or daughters.
Having laid her eggs, the mother swims away, and
there's an end of it. Should enemies eat up her
nursery, what pang can wring a parent's heart whose
affection has to be dissipated over an annual family
of three hundred thousand ? Real joy or pleasure is
said not to exist here below ; but if, as has been sometimes
asserted, joy consists in the absence of sorrow,
then are the fishes eminently joyful, and I'd give my
crown to plash in the sea-deeps along with 'em. I
seem to laugh, Maria, but 'tis like Beaumarchais'
Figaro, lest I should weep. I'm tied to that dirty
Blowsalinda, and you babble of happiness! She
writes me such letters — such letters ; and, what is

worse, distils poison into Charlotte's ear against her
father. And her private life and low favourites !
A delicate-minded woman like you cannot dream of
it. My life might he better, no doubt ; but hers ! The
people are in ignorance of what that woman is, and
I'm not allowed to tell 'em ; that's what wrings me
most. Ministers care nothing for what I suffer; fora
royal personage, they think, is only a wooden block
to hang a cro^m on. But I'm a man as they are, and
claim the indulgences due to human weakness under
temptation, and I've been harried and tormented to
the extreme verge of endurance. I'll have a divorce —
I win, in spite of aU of 'em. That termagant shan't
have it all her own way ! "

It was seldom that the Prince of Wales could thus
unum-then himself of his secret load, and the incoherent
discharge did him good, as he paced up and
down upon the hearth rug ; and the tears gathered on
the cheeks of his listener.

*ein years to come," she said, "people will learn
what she was like, and be sorry for you."

Much use," snapped the Prince, *' after I'm dead
and gone."

Popular verdicts as to the character of historical
persons are often wrong," reflected Mrs. Fitzherbert,
and have to be set right by the clearer vision of
posterity. Marie Antoinette's is a case in point.
She was incorrigibly idle, frivolous, ignorant, bigoted,

vindictive, rejecting all counsel; yet she occupies
a shrine for the present — at least, in public esteem ;
for the general world can only see how tragic was her
destiny. Martyrdom condoned the rest. So was it
with Mary Stuart, who was — we know it now — an
immoral, false, and bloody woman. The scaffold
covers a multitude of sins. If Elizabeth is permitted
to look down on earth, how she must regret having
chopped off her rival's head ! The world is hoodwinked
for a time. People have wilfully set up a
fictitious Caroline, who by-and-by will be seen in her
true colours."

You are right, Maria, as you always are," sighed
the Prince of Wales. "No one would have thought
anything of Charles I., or much of Louis Seize, but
for the glamour of the block. But it is hard, isn't
it, that one can't be thought well of without losing
one's head ? "

** A living martyrdom does not do as well ? " smiled
Mrs. Fitzherbert. "It is very unfortunate. People
stir up differences between you, too, for selfish purposes.
'Tis a game of battledore and shuttlecock ; if
the quarrel falls to the ground, it is instantly picked
up again."

**I believe you think that my eyes are jaundiced
with regard to that female," cried the Kegent.
Here's her last letter to Charlotte, happily intercepted;
a nice one from a mother! Will you hear

it ? Nay, but you shall. Here's what she writes to
our daughter : * * Then I opened my sorrows, dearest
child, to the King, who said, " I will befriend you ; but
my family will prove my ruin. They care for nothing
except their ease, and sooner or later will lose the
crown by improper conduct. The disposition of my
son George " ' — (that's me, Maria, and written to my
child) — ' " is unrelenting. . . . My son is so lascivious,
that if you would attempt to hide his defects they
would speedily become more apparent." ' (Here there's
something nice about my brother.) " . Then I
answered with much warmth, "Does your Majesty
mean to say that his Eoyai Highness had issue that
was not acknowledged ? '* ' (Do remember, Maria, that
this is for the benefit of a virgin of eighteen.) ' " I do
indeed," replied the King ; " and though the affair has
hitherto been kept from the public, it must and will
be made known." My dear Charlotte will conceive
how much I felt on such singular explanations . . .'
and so on, with as much more family unpleasantness
as she could rake together to assault the nostrils of
a young girl. And this is the mother whom Charlotte
is bidden never to desert, who is flaunted at me by a
virtuous populace as a persecuted angel whose conduct
I should admire ! I've nearly had enough, though.

♦ This letter is authentic : subsequently printed in her memoirs
by Lady Anne Hamilton, who was a friend and staunch supporter of
the Princess of Wales.

God forgive me ! I get so desperate as to seek forgetfulness
in drink and riot. Some day, I suppose,
one will grow callous."

"Poor fellow! " Mrs. Fitzherbert said. 'but for
your father, how different it might all have been!
But we must not rail at the stricken man. Your trial
is heavy, yet would it not be better to strive to extract
good out of it, instead of evil ? "

"I'm not purified and fit for heaven, like you.
They've done their best to make a devil of me'*
The Prince of Wales stared gloomily out at the
glittering river, with its freight of boats with gleaming
sails and ponderous black barges and shooting
wherries; and Mrs. Fitzherbert surveyed with an
ineffable tenderness his clouded face.

I tell you, I'm sick of it," he repeated. " When
you subtract sleep and our toilette, how very
little of our lives we live, and of that brief span
how very little there is that is not disagreeable ! I
find in every day a large preponderance of worry, a
microscopic speck of satisfaction. Among other
things, they say that I am selfish. Maybe I am. It
is difficult for one in my position not to be selfish.
I'm sure I'm always kind and affectionate to those
who are kind to me. To a genial nature such as
mine, you've no notion how dreadful it is to be
hated. If I'd had better parents, I might have been
better. A young man's development depends so

much upon his mother, and mine is made of
wood."

*poor dear Florizel ! " Mrs. Fitzherhert thought,
as she gazed at the man for whom her Hfe was
sacrificed. There was a puffiness under the eye that
no ai-t could conceal, and crow's-feet too; but how
handsome he was still ! In truth, the presents of the
Tricked fairy had counterbalanced the other christening
gifts. In the old, old days, when he was a vision
of aU that could captivate a woman, he was floundering
and buffeting always. To some it is not given to
rest until the last long silence, perhaps not even
then. They cannot escape the turmoil, but must goon
tilting, without a break, at foes of their ovm
fashioning. But he loved the old love still, in spite of
her white hair. The sneering detractors were wrong,
who accused him of caring for nothing but himself
and his frogged stout and new-curled casey. He
might, tempted by a cunningly ejected wave of perfume,
have stepped aside to cull here and there a
willing blossom ; but in the inmost shrine, the holy
of holies, that no vulgar eyes might see, the faded
rose was treasured, worshipped yet, despite its
shrivelled leaves and loss of colour. Sure 'tis the
loftiest compliment that man can pay to woman,
forgetting externals thus, willingly to wear the
withered garland, keeping its vanished charms in
fond remembrance. Mrs. Fitzherbert was grateful.

and glad she had sent for him, and, womanlike, set
herself to improve the occasion with a lecture. Dear
delightful ladies, you have many advantages over us
inferior men! You are speckless, spotless seraphs,
clad in white samite — wonderful ! But you have one
little speck, like Achilles — a blemished heel. You are
generous, forgiving, amazingly devoted ; but miserable
males can beat you in one thing: they can avoid
improving an occasion. There is not an individual
woman that can. No, not one; not even the best.
We arrive, all torn and ragged, having tumbled on our
face and cut our trouser knees, and beg a wet sponge
to mop our bleeding nose withal, and no hand can
mop more deftly. But while the process is going on,
can the darling refrain from a sermon, accentuating
our disaster with untoward remarks that have not
the merit of originality? No. A man, though he
may not mop so cleverly, will abstain from telling
you that your trouser knees are cut (as if you did not
know it), and that your bruised nose will be bulbous
for a fortnight, and that your eyes will certainly be
blacked. Not so a woman. She will, with minute
severity, review each rent, rate you with stupidity for
tumbling, as though you had of malice aforethought
prostrated yourself on the flints for the express
purpose of injuring your proboscis.

*' You were always so imprudent ! " the elderly lady
said. " Never could keep out of debt. I know that

at this moment you are i)i'essed for money. Poor
soul, many of your faults are such as, with skilful
pruning, might have been trained to virtues! The
inevitable fell on us, and we must endure its weight ;
but many of the extra straws you've jDiled on your
own back."

Can I helix it ? " retorted the Kegent, wheeling
tartly. 'we're constantly paying forfeit for things
we can't help. That's what I complain of. All blood
is red ; but it doesn't flow in the same manner through
the veins of desperate men as in beings calm enough
to reason ; yet both are judged by the same standard.
Money ! Oh, how I loathe money ! To Jack pecuniary
affairs come quite natural ; he manages his purse
without any trouble, and there's always a guinea at
the bottom : while Tom, who's cleverer than Jack,
can never master the rudiments which Jack finds so
simple. The very first rules are Hebrew and Chaldaic ;
he is born without comprehension of such things, and
is always in a mess. I can't understand money, no
more can many others. 'Tis monstrously unfair.
Let us hope that in another world this itching, constant
irritation of a lifetime will be set off against
venal transgressions."

'sand your advisers are no wiser than yourself,
and never were," smiled Mrs. Fitzherbert. ** Indeed,
'twas ever the old tale of the blind leading the blind
into the ditch. If I can't forgive Charles Fox, no

more should you ; for, much older than yourself, h&
led you to the gaming-table, and taught you shocking
habits, and tied that millstone round your throat
ivhich never may be shaken off. How many times
did I go to Hamlet's to pawn my jewels for you ? If
you only were surrounded by a better entourage!
That's one of the things in which you are partly to
blame. You have an unlucky knack of drawing ta
yourself the least reputable people. Lord Osmington,
for instance. Why Lord Osmington, who hasn't a
good point, and is responsible for much of your unpopularity
? While as for some of the others, they are
glaringly unfit friends for the Heir Apparent."

"I've just given two their conger'' replied the-prince.
** Sheridan has grown offensive. It grieves
me, but in his state 'tis best to keep him from the
public view. His wit is gone. There's nothing left
of my old friend but a foul carcase. The lamp is out,
and naught remains but the stench."

Unfruitful talent," murmured the lady. ** Genius
misapplied, fame without reverence, age without
respect. What an epitaph ! And the other ? "

George Brummel."

*brummell! Why? He's silly and affected and
transcendently insolent ; no worse'*

Far worse in my eyes. The other night he permitted
himself to speak of you with disrespect. That
may not be pardoned."

There-^as a pause, and Mrs. Fitzherbert's
heightened colour showed that she was not dead to
flattery. It was kind to overset the favourite of the
hour for unseemly words spoken of the old love.

"Thank you," the lady said quietly. The evident
gratification that shone from her pale face encouraged
the Kegent to press the matter that lay deep down
within his breast.

Maria," he whispered, " don't answer now. You've
given your earthly happiness to me, and, like a
selfish man, I accept the sacrifice — can even demand
of you another, which you surely will not refuse.
You complain of my advisers. I know that some of
them are bad. I'm distressed about Vere, for he's
shown symptoms of late that look very queer and
crooked. No one knows me as you do, or ever has
influenced me so much for good. In your presence I
feel a better man, for you are the ghost of my better
self. Forget Fox's speech ; reconsider your decision,
and come back to me."

As your mistress, when I am your wife ? For
shame ! You admit that I've bestowed on you my
earthly happiness : is not that enough ? I have no
more to give. My memory when we both are gone is
sacred. The truth may be known then, of me as of
others. By-the-by, it is well that I should tell you
this. My marriage papers are out of my hands,
deposited in the care of my lord Albemarle, that my
VOL. I. 22

name may be sacred from calumny when our voices
shall be silent. Sir Arthur Wellesley and he have
accepted the trust. The documents are in safe
custody at Courts's Bank."

Now, the Prince of Wales was not one to care
about the verdict of posterity. The present and its
lies and misrepresentations were more than enough
for him, and it seemed idle sentimentality to fuss
about marriage proofs which were never to be displayed
in life. What does it matter what folks say
when your ears are deaf ? Deeply as he respected the
lady by his side, he deemed her care in this matter to
be puerile; but, taking the hint which her fancy
appeared to convey, he acted on it forthwith. " Would
you give me a pleasure?" he said, with the bright
open smile that thrilled her with old memories.
Accept a peerage ; that would set you straight
before the world. I'm not king yet, but it could be
managed."

'rand be added to the list of royal concubines?"
asked the lady. '' Along with Yarmouth Walden
and her Grace of Kendal ! No, indeed. I've done
nothing to cast a slur upon the name of Fitzherbert,
and the name of a true-hearted gentleman is good
enough for me, since I may not wear yours. I have
something more to say. Charlotte, does she care for
her unhappy mother ? "

** She detests me," responded the Regent, grimly,
*' and in that is a loyal daughter of Caroline's." ,

*' Is it not true that sou have been harsh with her ?
Remember your own fate, and be tenderly considerate.
Many rumours are abroad "

I wish Rumour were throttled ! Have I not
complained of the unending falsehoods "

*' Say that they are falsehoods, and I will rest
content. Promise me that you will not compel
the child to assume unwelcome bonds. Promise me
this, that at a future day you may be spared remorse.
Promise me ! "

A disobedient, rebellious baggage ! Well, I
promise. You force what you will from me, but give
nothing in exchange. The ice has been broken, and
by you, and I am grateful. Seeing how docile I am,
sure we may meet sometimes ? "

'what would the Marchioness of Hertford say?"
replied Mrs. Fitzherbert, with a gleam of mischief.
Nay, I've no objection to her ladyship, except that
I would she were more disinterested. Her counsel is
shrewd enough, but she clucks forihe behoof of that
carroty chick of hers, caring more for him than for
your Highness. No," she continued, resuming the
subdued manner that had grown habitual ; *' there is
a barrier betwixt us that may never be surpassed.
When my girl comes out, I shall return to the world
till such time as she may be established. Though we
may meet, 'twill be better not to speak ; for I could not
bring myself to prattle to you, of all men, about the
rain, or the sun, and the state of the thermometer.

But I will look into your eyes, and you may know, if
you care still to know it, that I love you, while I seem
indifferent, as I have always loved you ; and that when
malice speaks, the venomous words sweep by unheeded.
I have lain upon your breast, and I can
count the beatings of your heart as well as I can my
own, and have learned to divide the chaff of your
heedless follies from the wheat of your kindly nature.
And now, good-bye. When the girls return, they
must not find you here."

The Regent parted the silver hair and stooped to
kiss the furrowed brow ; and Mrs. Fitzherbert inclined
her proud head to the embrace — simply, as a fond
sister might to the kiss of a cherished brother.

Maria," he whispered hoarsely, " do you remember
the diamond that I had sawn in half to cover our two
lockets ? Where is yours ? "

"Here, round my neck," the lady murmured.

And mine," returned the Prince. " It will be
found when I am dead, and buried with me in my
coffin. God bless you, dear! My dearly loved
Maria ! "

And the Regent, with unaccustomed moisture in his
eyes, walked rapidly away; while Mrs. Fitzherbert
sank back in her armchair, and gave herself up to the
enjoyment of a good hearty cry — an unusual condition
of breakdown for one so disciplined, which terrified
the girls no little when they presently returned.



What is it ? " inquired Miss Seymour, kneeling
with arms twined about her friend. " Has anything
distressful happened ? "

*' No, child," the other answered. '' I'm happier,
that's all, than I've been this many a day." And
then she murmured to herself with gladness, as she
looked upon the boats and glancing river, "He is
mine yet, faithful in spite of my worn face and my
white hau' — mine still — and will love me to the end !
Will love me to the end, thank God ! "

Mrs. Fitzherbert gauged him aright, who was
sneered at by carping critics as the acme of fickleness ;
for to the end George was true to her. On his
deathbed the King spoke anxiously to his Grace of
Wellington, imploring him to see that the tiny chain
about his neck, which bore a precious freight, was
allowed to Anger there. The duke fulfilled his trust.
The lock of bright brown hair, covered by the half
diamond, was inclosed within the coffin, and is lying
now upon the dust that once was George IV.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY WiLLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. G. C. &> Co.

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

The person borrowing this material is
responsible for its renewal or return
before the Latest Date stamped beUn^ You
Say be charged a minimum ee of $75.00

for each non-returned or lost item.

owned by the University ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
Universi^^Ki^^'l^bra^^

m '2 "i 1^

When renewing by phone, write new due date

below previous due date.

A CHRONICLE OF THE REGENCY.

THE HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD,

AUTHOR OF "LADY GRIZEL," "MY LORDS OF Stroke,'
IN HER majesty's KEEPING," ETC.

'Chaque age a son esprit, ses plaisirs, et ses moeurs."

BOILEAU.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

i3ublisf)crs in ordinary to |^er fHajcstg tic queen.
1883.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTEK Fags.

I. A Lady with a Mission . . . ••. 1

II. Bad News fou Charlotte . . . 2o

III. The Opera 48

IV. Cyrus goes into Training . . . 85

V. Ashes . . . . . ••• 123

VI. "Venus Victrix?" . . » . . 141

VII. My Lord plays his Cards . . . 169

VIII. A Compact 103

IX. Abigel and Cyrus dig . . . . 215

X. They consult the Hags . . . 232

XI. A Curious Advertisement . . ••. 261

Nil The Fives-Courts . . . . 287

Chapter I.

A LADY WITH A MISSION.

I AM grieved to state that when my lord Osmmgtoii
awoke ou the day after the ridotto, he was in no wise
ashamed of himself. He yawned, cm^sed the weight
of his head and the dryness of his tongue, and,
ringing his bell, bawled from behind closed curtains
for some brandy. Cyrus Smalley, who had been
awaiting the summons hour after hour, brought in
the fiery liquid, and stood, an image of deep concern,
while my lord gulped it down.

Damn you, what time is it ?" growled the noble
earl.

Close on four, my lord," responded Cyrus.

'' Four, eh ? " echoed his lordship. " Why so late?
Oh ah ! I remember now. Lost ten thousand ; cm'se
the luck. Write a line to the drone at Battle Magna.
He's as stingy as if the money were his own."

VOL. XL 23

Cyrus obeyed ; and as he wrote, my lord, turning
on bis pillow, blinked at bim with bleary ej^es.

"Did I dream it," he inquired, "or did you get
a beating from Caleb Kann? Your ears are red.
You did, then ? What the devil do you mean by it ?
and what the devil do you mean by fighting him at
all without my permission ? "

Cyrus was silent, his face a burning scarlet.

I shall have to give you up, if you are going to
be a failure. It's queer, too, for Cribbb ought to know
his business, and he believes in you."

He did not beat me, my lord," returned Cyrus.
I'm not well. Late hours and dissipation play havoc
with us country chaps. After a few weeks' training
I'd smash him easy — and with pleasure, too, for I
have had enough of his bounce, the skulking ruffian."

My lord muttered something uncomplimentary
about Caleb under the sheet ; for that worthy had
made a bungle of a certain secret commission, and
his employer, like Lady Macbeth, objected to the
Vf Old fail.

Well said," he cried ; " and beat him you shall,
my lad."

"The match is made, my lord, for a purse of a
hundred guineas."

I'll back you heavily, Cy, for the honour of the
Bristol school. Call my valet, and tell Miss Eowe to
get breakfast."

*' Miss Eowe is not here, my lord," said Cyrus,
Tvith timid surprise. The glamour that surrounds
the caste of Vere de Vere ^Yas not without its effect
on simple Mr. Smalley, uneasy though he was to
think that my lord's bit of fun should have been so
ill-timed and unfortunate in its result.

'not here!" shouted my lord, sitting up and
looking but a sordid spectacle of worn debauch,
despite the fine lace upon his nightcap.

She never came home, and no one knows where
she's gone — not even Jarvis, hang him ! who was
admitted to all her secrets. I'd give ten years of
my life to know ! " And the poor fellow's lips
quivered with genuine distress.

What a goose ! " snapped my lord, peevishly.
*' See about breakfast, and I'll think over it'*

My lord did think over it, and, revolving the matter,
in a dim way foresaw that annoyance might accrue
to himself should the young lady not be forthcoming.
This made him cross, and he became yet more irritated
upon sitting down to breakfast, when he missed
her petits soins. She was such a neat-handed Phyllis,
and so amusing, too, with her sage commentaries
upon passing events. Many a time had he roared
outright at some quaint sally, although his temples
throbbed ; and he waxed wroth with her for what he
was pleased to call high flown hysterics, in that she
had resented his delicate little joke and retired in a

huff from the protection of his roof. And there was
another result of her abrupt retirement which was
exasperating. The news spread like wildfire throughout
the Ark that the hoity-toity minx, with her
fine airs, was gone, and universal was the jubilation.
Pepita and Chiquita had long since given place to
Rosin and Maraquita, younger members of the
same large family; and these were more grasping
even than the others. So delighted were they at
the unexpected routing of the foe, that they broke
the consigne which bade them wait their turn at
the daily levee, and, taking the citadel by storm,
irrupted in a boisterous crowd into the breakfast
parlour.

To listen to Abigel's arch sayings and look in her
fresh face was one thing; to be deafened by the
harsh hubbub of raddled hussies, who were all leading
up to the subject of diamonds, was another ; and
my lord, though not repentant, began to regret that
little transaction which closed the fete at Wattier's.
Of course it was the girl, and not he, who was at
fault; for she was sulking somewhere in a corner,
and sulks conduce to wrinkles. No properly brought
up maiden does anything that conduces to wrinkles ;
ergo, this particular maiden had not made the most
of her educational advantages, and therefore was distinctly
to blame. Was ever anything more clear ? My
lord quite began to think that it was he who would

have to forgive her for a breach of good manners ; and
so, in a generous and condescending spirit, lie penned
a note to Mr. Townshend, the Bow Street officer, offering
a reward for a damsel who was lost or strayed,
just as he would have done for a dog. But Mr. townshend
sent his men about, and anxious Cyrus scoured
the town without success; and the aspect of the
woe-begone visage of the latter roused the latent
irritability of his patron. No doubt, in his heart of
hearts, though he would not admit it to himself, my
lord was aware that he had sinned. He knew that,
in the first instance, he had been wrong to excite
himself because the Dreadful Woman had chosen to
dub her page an earl. It was a harmless bit of
feminine spleen on her part, and it would have
become him better to have laughed at it. "What
could it signify whether she chose to call him
Northallerton, or Akimbo, King of the Cannibal
Islands ? Perhaps there was a twinge of buried
conscience connected with the former title which
may have awakened the resentment of Lord Islington.
Be that as it may, it was as foolish of him to
take that folly seriously, as of Abigel to be annoyed
at his joke. Since slavery obtains no more in
England, how could it be other than a joke ? For
the future, he firmly resolved to leave the youth
alone — to attempt no more to kidnap him, or deign
to notice his existence. The Prince of Wales, he

knew, half guessed that something nefarious was
going on. He had been quite cold to his old chum —
seemed as if about to drop him. And that reminded
my lord of a fact which had created a stir in the
metropolis. It was whispered about that there was
breach between his Royal Highness and the arbiter
elegantiarum — a serious one, not a lover's quarreL
It certainly was true that Brummel had lounged, as
usual, to the door of Carlton House, and been refused
admittance. The poor beau nearly had a fit then
and there upon the pavement, for at that particular
moment a crowd of country folks were admiring his-perfect
back; and he would, no doubt, have succumbed
under the shock but that the day was muddy,
and Brummel hated mud. Sherry was discarded
too, but that was desirable for many reasons. What
did it all mean? Was Prince Hal about to pull
himself together, to take to tea and psalm-singing ?
It was a little late in the day to send Nym and Bardolph
packing. The idea tickled my lord Islington,
but with his amusement was mingled a tinge
of regret. Although he possessed palaces of his own
in town and country, there were special attractions
about Carlton House, and he really did like his royal
master as well as he could like anybody. He resolved
to go and see Brummel, to find out how the
land lay, and to ask advice too as to what was best
to be done for the recapture of the errant goose. Soon

the very next morning, he intimated to those whom
it concerned that there would be no levcc, and strolled
about midday to Brummel's house in Channel Street.
All the beau's friends were well aware that his first
toilet was sacred — that if all London were ablaze that
earl's incantation and mystery must on no account
be intruded on. Indeed, the heroic Eobinson would
have defended the door with his life. For if any one
had caught a glimpse of the censor without his war-paint,
the beau would himself have died of it, but
before expiring he would have cast a lighting glance
which would have slain the rash intruder. Dian
herself, when frowning at Actaeon, would not have
been more appalling. Therefore those who respected
themselves and Brummel knew better than to call ere
midday. Yere rang the bell, and the door was
opened by the lesser luminary, Mr. Eobinson himself,
in full dress with powdered hair, as became the high
priest of his religion. Under one arm he carried a
sort of clothes-basket, full to the brim of snowy
neckerchief, fresh from a country laundry-welcome,

my lord," said Mr. Eobinson, with a
graceful bow. " We are doing our beard."

Then I'll call by-and-by," replied Vere.

By no means, my lord ! " returned the other.
*' We always receive while we are doing our beard.
We are hipped and out of sorts this morning. Atoux
(that is our pet poodle) received three kicks just now.

When we kick Atoux we are desperately hipped
indeed. Here is Atoux." And Mr. Eobinson flung
wide the dining-room door with a flourish, as if to
announce the Marquis of Carabus, displaying the
poodle gnawing a chicken-bone to soothe his lacerated
feelings.

In his dressing-room above, Brummel (in his wig)
sat swathed in a gorgeous dressing robe, frowning
into a dentist's mirror, as with a pair of tweezers he
corrected the faults of nature. One table was spread
with the glittering contents of a huge dressing-case,
like an imperial, while another was covered with
seals, trinkets, snuff-boxes, watches, chains, from
which by-and-by a selection was to be made for the
day according to the weather.

'^A silversmith's shop," laughed Vere. *'Do you
feel qualmish, that you clutch that silver basin
between your legs ? I often feel unwell of a
morning."

Heaven forbid, my lord ! " ejaculated the high
priest. ** We never drink, so we never feel qualmish ;
but your lordship must be aware that it is quite
impossible to spit except in a silver basin. Will your
lordship look at these elastic breeches — ' sidesj)rings '
we call them — our last sartorial imagining ? They fit
as neatly as a stocking."

The beau, forgetting his jealousy, nodded a greeting
to Vere, and then gazed fondly at the breeches

and sighed. "What's the good of it all? " he said.
'' This is a world of vanity."

'oliver wrong," ejaculated Vere. "Tell me, is it
true that 3^011 and the Prince have quarrelled ? "

The beau raised his eyebrows slightly. Ah-lady
the vultures were beginning to gather around the
liver-smitten and prostrate carcase. This horsey lord,
who could never understand the refinement that
Brummel preached, was come to spy out the land, on
his way to the club, doubtless, to retail all that he
could gather.

'* George is taking lessons from Carpue," he said,
"in surgery; and I really cannot go to Carlton
House while that dirty fancy lasts. Eobinson ! — good
heavens ! — take Lord Osmington's handkerchief and
place it in another room — by the open window;
there's something the matter with it."

"Eau de Chypre. I rather fancied the perfume,"
returned Vere, giving way to the censor's whim
despite himself. "Maraquita brought it from Paris
t'other day."

"Nothing but country washing, my good friend;
and no stinking oils. How often have I told you ?
But it's no use. Mercy ! what a waistcoat ! You're
dressed like a merry-andrew, a cross between a jockey
and a harlequin."

"Never mind my dress," growled Yere. "Have
you quarrelled or not ? "

Here's another new invention," proceeded Brummell,
to turn the conversation from the subject of his
Royal Highness. " I've made a present of it to my
washerwoman in lieu of paying her bill. 'Twill make
her fortune. See this neckcloth — could anything be
whiter, less marred by creases? — as smooth as
bleached pasteboard. It is stiffened with isinglass
The idea occurred to me in the night."

"An inspiration," murmured the high priest,
who in leisure moments studied the dictionary,
Peerless and pre-eminent ; unparagoned."

The Prince of Wales has taken to black neckties,"
observed Vere.

And they look shocking — shocking. What's to
be done with a man who wears black neckties ? He's
going straight to perdition, the infatuated creature ! "
And Brummel gazed sadly at the ceiling, as though
painfully conscious that a moment was not far distant
when it would be necessary to cut the Heir Apparent.

So you've taken to play," pursued Lord Islington.
*' That's a new move. To drown care ? "

"Won £20,000 last night from General Scott,"
returned the beau, with well-assumed indifference,.
at Wattier's."

Not bad for a beginner," Vere answered. " Talking
of Wattier's, you were gone, I think, when we had
that little contretemjjs.'*

A brawling of bruisers. How unseemly ! If I

had been there they wouldn't have dared," sneered the
censor. " Pity I went so soon, but I ^Yas exhausted."

I rather want your opinion as to what I ought todo.
Miss Eowe has bolted."

Plucky gul. For once, 3-ouVe found that the
Balmy-Brutal doesn't pay. Not that I'd give an
opinion. Young ladies, as you know, are not in
my line."

'' "Well, but do you think I ought to do anything ?
They say she's drowned herself."

More likely gone off with some one. Underbred,
if pretty. You lady-killers are always irresistible in
your own conceit."

How about you, who take that short-waisted
swallow-tail and Valencia vest to be perfection ! "
laughed Vere. 'we're both tarred with the same
brush.

Cold is the nymph who would not dote
On Brummel in his new-built coat,
Just like an hourglass or a wasp,
So tightened he can scarcely gasp ! '

If it turns out that she's gone off with some one, I
shall think the better of her. Have you seen the last
portrait of yourself in Mother Humphrey's window ?
'Every lady, dashing Cyprian, and mop-squeezer
worships the splendid beau ! '

With chest exuberant in the town.
He mows whole ranks of beauty down.*

And you pretend to despise 'em ! Pooh ! "

All this was mighty vulgar, redolent of Grub Street.
So Brummel, by this time perfect, having placed his
hat with extreme accuracy at the prescribed angle,
having scrutinized in a cheval-glass his dark breeches,
pointed boots glittering with champagne polish, and
snuff-coloured frock with high velvet collar, proceeded
to don a pair of primrose gloves, and to hold out his
hand for a silk umbrella of a shade to match his garb.
Then he performed a slow and solemn rotatory movement
that the high priest might see that all was welland
the latter nodding gravely in token of satisfaction
after a breathless survey, the beau put an end
to the conference.

Ta, ta," he said ; " off on the ' Grand Strut ' to the
Park ? I'm bound for Wattier's, to give Scott his
revenge." And with a bow he bent his body slightly,
and crawled on tiptoe down the street, picking his
way over the stones.

That he should suddenly turn gambler ! " thought
Vere, looking after him. 'how he must have felt
the snub ! What next ? He of all men ! His purse
won't stand it long. See what it is to bask no more
in the rays of royal favour ! On the ' Strut ' ? No ;
not this morning. I'll go to Carlton House, and tell
our Grand Signor."

It was a curious coincidence that, just as he was
determining to think no more of Abigel till she chose
to reappear, he was compelled to draw up sharply in

Pall Mall to allow a coach to pass. " Impudent
booby ! " he growled. " I'd have him chastised if he
wasn't driving a woman. Miss Knight, the duenna, I
suppose," he added, as he saw the coach turn down
the lane that led to Charlotte's nunnery. It was not
Miss Knight, but the errant Abigel herself, on her
way to bid farewell to her royal friend previous to
leaving London.

Our elders arrange things deliciously for us by the
light of their own experience, and perversely we decline
to listen to their plans. We are as yet far off the
millennium, and it would never do if we were too good,
too obedient, too tractable, for the angels would be
deprived of their legitimate function of leading sinners
aright. Mrs. Fitzherbert settled it quite comfortably
that my lord Osmington was to go down upon his
knees and cry peccavi, previous to rising up again
and arranging with his lawyer for a dowry and a
wedding ; that one of the Almack goddesses who had
already countenanced Abigel, was to find a suitable
husband ; and that the first gentleman in Europe was
to give away the bride. But the bride for whose behoof
the tableau was to be arranged proved stubborn and
recalcitrant at the outset. Despite her gratitude to
the sad lady, she could not but laugh at the notion
of being managed thus — she who showed such incipient
talent in the managing of other folk. A
husband, quotha ! Lascelles perhaps, Fortune's darling

sprig! The post of temporary tea-maker to Lord
Osmington was all very well for a time, but to settle
down for life with the daily duty of shaking up a
moribund dandy, and galvanizing him into moonlit
existence, Vv^as more than Miss Eowe could undertake.
It was, in her opinion, only one shade less blameworthy
than to submit to be sold to his Royal
Highness. So she shook her head and closed her
firm ruddy lips, and declined to be managed.

Dear lady," she said, " my mind's made up ; and
when once I make up my mind, you might just as
well try to shake the Rock of Gibraltar. I'm nineteen
quite old and experienced, and am resolved never
io marry." At which Mrs. Fitzherbert laughed, well
knowing that wounded damsels always vow that they
will never marry ; that they have a mission ; that
they were designed from the very first to be nurses
or nuns ; and that nine out of ten forget all about
their mission in six months, and trip quite nimbly to
the altar with a new acquaintance. She knew also
that while the ascetic fever lasts you might as well
lecture the bed-post ; that the neatest arguments are
met with a vinegar smile which seems to say, '* Talk
on, poor worldling, unwise virgin with lamp untrimmed
! My lamp is full of sacred oil. Just look
and admire ! Brighter than yours can ever be. I am
redeemed, specially set apart and chosen for a holy
work. Instead of talking nonsense, how much better

to follow humbly' in my ^Yake — a long way behind, as
becomes the unregenerate ! "

Mrs. Fitzherbert fully understood this lofty and
superior phase of the infant female mind, and knew
better than to waste her breath. "Do as you will,
my dear," she said gently; "only remember that
when you want a temporary home or a fast friend,
you may always come to me."

Abigel felt vaguely that she was, perhaps, a little
above concert pitch — a trifle too superior, — but the
infant mind, as she had herself stated, was made up,
so for the present there was nothing to be said. She
yearned to shake off the dust of London ; to look no
longer on its wickedness, its unveiled debauchery and
licence. Reflecting retrospectively, she marvelled
how one so energetic as herself could have lain so
long each day in bed, while the bright sun was
shining, skimming a silly novel and sipping chocolate.
She wondered how it was that she could ever have
"twitted Leoline, in access of irreverence, with his love
of rills and flowers, of clouds and running water.
Sm-e she must have been under some spell. But now,
thank Heaven, she was awake. Every nerve tingled
for some work to do ; some all-engrossing occupation,
that would leave her exhausted at the day's end, tired
with the sweet weariness of labour. Her acute intellect
threw off its cobwebs — sought hither and thither
with long sensitive antennae for pabulum on which to

feed. She was all agog to be u^ and doing. The
only question was, what was the task to be ?

The face of dear Leoline haunted the maiden's
dreams, as he had appeared for a moment — aroused
from contemplation to indignant protest against
wrong. Oh ! if he could always be thus — down by her
side upon the earth instead of soaring in poetic cloudland.
And yet how wrong, how wicked, to desire the
lowering of a genius to her mundane level ! What he
had said of Milton dwelt in her fancy. The day
might come, would come certainly, when he would
display to an admiring world the stuff of which he
was made, and stalk to his proper seat on the bench
of master minds. And then how happy she would be
afar off ! How she would kneel in loving worship !
Byron would be left in the shade to contemplate his
club-foot. Leoline had no club-foot, or any other
blemish. There never was anybody half so interesting
as that slim and handsome youth.

The two girls walked round and round the prison
yard, at the end of which the sentry marched up and
down; and novice Charlotte, whose troubles were
only too real and tangible, marvelled and grew confused.
What was this tangle of opposing motives
which actuated her friend? She was a perfect
weathercock. At one moment she regretted that my
lord's disgraceful behaviour should stand 'twixt her
and him for evermore ; at another was glad that she

should have wakened in time to see him as he was.
At one moment she turned to fly from Sodom and
Gomorrah ; at another appeared to he leaving something
or some one behind, from which or whom she
was loth to part.

Leo, Charlotte remarked to Abigel, was discontented
with his lot ; pining for independence, for
leisure to pursue the Muses. What a pity that he
could not have his own, and be free to do as he listed !

"Have his own!" Abigel ejaculated, gazing upwards.
*why should he not? Dear Leoline ! why
should not some one be self-devoted to the quest for
which he was constitutionally unfitted — some one
who, weary of lotos-eating and vowing that it was
always afternoon, would gird the loins and don the
breastplate and flourish a drawn sword; some one
who needed mental occupation wherewith to slay the
demons of private misery and emptiness ; some one
like herself, in fact ?

Could she really intend, Charlotte inquired in
astonishment, to devote herself to the pm-suit of an
ignis fatuus f She, Charlotte, had promised when
she was Queen to perform wonders, but that was quite
another thing from the rushing out of an unarmed
maid to slaughter misty dragons. Did Abigel really
and truly mean to say

Certainly she did. The sooner a false position is
resigned the better. She would blithely abandon hers,

VOL. n. 24

and return to a low estate forthwith; had already
written to distant Yorkshire to inform grandcourt
Pentecost that she would speedily be in the old home,
never to leave it more. The idle dream was over ;
the veneer of fine-lady's should be cheerfully put
away. The change would be irksome at first, no
doubt, for 'twould be impossible to associate with the
raw hoydens of Stratton-on-the-Fosse. She would
lead a secluded life; read learned books, nurse the sick;
sink to an honoured grave — the sooner the better —
when the task was done. The task ! The maiden's
eyes danced when she thought of the task, the all-engrossing
task! Was it not well that, for all his
genius, Leo should be so unfit for action ? For himself
he would some day reap renown and fame. It
should be the glorious task of his playfellow to fulfil
his mammy's wish, to give a name to the nameless
dead. Had she not desired for years to see Leo
master of his own ? and had she not been held back
from openly expressing the wish by a sense of duty
to the libertine who had been kind? But now all
was changed; and Miss Kowe felt quite grateful to
my lord for his outrageous conduct, though she might
be personally the loser. By raising her above her
station, and then rendering it impossible for the
assumed position to be retained, he had conferred a
selfish and cruel kindness, for which gratitude would
be out of place. Whilst enjoying questionable benefits.

she had been pleasant and useful, had caused my
lord no moment of concern ; on that score there was
nothing on her conscience. They were quits, and
there could be no reason for compunction in employing
those talents which a high-class education had
sharpened, for the unravelling of the knotted skein
of Leo's legitimate rights. It was not as though she
proposed to plot by foul means to do my lord an
injury. Time was when she wanted to see two
antagonists, towards both of whom she had a leaning,
lighting in public lists. Now her leaning was to one
side onlj^ and there was no valid cause for shrinking
from a tender of such assistance as was in her power
to the preferred candidate. To this end Abigel was
determined to take refuge with the only woman to
whom she had a right to fly ; was resolved to endure
the solitude of ruined Battle Magna, the cuffs and
querulous plaints of Pentecost Smalley, in order to
investigate the ancient manor-house at leisure, to
ferret unsuspected in old cupboards, and seek for
such moth-eaten clues as might chance to lm*k
therein.

But such chances as there were of success lay in
secrecy, and Charlotte was solemnly sworn to say
nothing about the scheme. Was not the finger of
Fate visible in the development of recent events?
Had Abigel remained at Battle Magna her mind
would have been bovine always, like the minds of

country folk. Such small hints and tiny suggestions
as might from time to time have shown their heads
would have escaped the grasp of a hunted intelligence.
Indeed, deprived early of Leo's society, it is
Probable that she would have ceased to thmk of him
at all, have given up dreaming of that vanished stock,
of the fugitive Jervois who crossed to Ireland, of the
white-polled, world-worn dependent, who appeared
like an unwelcome apparition to be exorcized by the
infuriated housekeeper. Yes ; it was Fate, and nothing
else. No doubt about it. Like Joan of Arc at
Rheims, she would survey with satisfaction her handiwork,
and then — unlike hapless Joan — disappear ina
whirlwind of conscious rectitude. If Joan had been
content to resume her peasant garb so soon as the
goal was reached, she would not have been burned at
Rouen. But no : she fluttered, fascinated, about the
young king that she had made ; and was consumed,
like a moth by a candle. Abigel promised herself to
be more wise. She would work and toil as long as it
was requisite, present his title-deeds and coronet to
my lord Northallerton, and then make a fine curtsy,
such as, in prosperous days of mirage, she had been
wont to make at Almack's. With her peculiar trick
of overleaping gaps and jumping at conclusions, she
already grasped the coronet and title-deeds. Did
they exist at all, save in a heated imagination?
Three links were absent from the chain which waste

bind Leo to the peerage. They were broken,
tossed, who might tell whither? — cast into what
impenetrable abysses and deep chasms ? And she, in
the mind's eye alone, already saw where they lay in
ambush !

The prospect of so wild a quest took Charlotte's
breath away. As shadowy a search as that for the
Holy Grail. Perhaps, an old crone of eighty, Abby,
might be searching still ; or more probably would,
long before attaining so respectable an age, have
retired to Bedlam, as a lunatic beset by an hallucination.
But then Charlotte would be Queen, would take
the friend of girlhood out of Bedlam, set Leo on his
feet. Better wait for better days quietly, she advised ;
take a husband, as Mrs. Fitzherbert suggested.

Take a husband ! " cried indignant Abby. How
dared Charlotte talk such rubbish? How good was
the Princess at preaching ! Why did not she, Charlotte,
take sallow Orange without more ado, instead of
making a pother ? Abigel would never, never marry ;
how many more times was she to say so ? How could
she marry, since, having renounced the world of
fashion, a husband — should she elect to seek one —
must be found in her own station? Did Charlotte
suppose that she, with her superior education, could
become the wife of a ploughboy or gamekeeper at
Battle Magna ? The only available person at all was
cousin Cy ; but then he was a pugilist, so that would

never do. What a wicked, wicked caprice it had been of
Lord Osmington's, and how abominable of grandcourt
Pentecost not to have foreseen what would come of
it. Cyrus was a dear boy. How good of him, flinging
aside personal dislike, to fly to Leo's rescue on that
ill-starred night ! But however dear, he was a boxer,
so there was no use in thinking of him in the light
of lord and master. Could Charlotte honestly saj^
that her friend was not right in abjuring at once
such dubious contingencies of matrimony as were
hers? People with a mission have no business to
marry — pioneers of civilization, explorers, missionaries,
what not. It was quite settled, then, that she
never could and never would marry — irrevocably
decided, once for all and for ever. Marry, forsooth I
Preoccupied by the difficulties of an intricate task,
she would, if tied in wedlock, be always waking her
spouse with elbow-jogs o' nights, with the weariful
refrain, " I've got it, hold it tight ! " and he would
administer correction that was well deserved. People
with a hobby are said to live content in single
blessedness. Charlotte would be good enough, therefore,
to refrain from doleful wagging of the head;
for sure 'twas preferable to be riding a hobby over
bogs after will-o'-the-wisp than to lie abed sipping
chocolate, over fictitious sorrows, and languishing
for husbands. If things could have gone on as they

were, what would have resulted ? Abby, with cleared
vision, could see plainly now. The young chatelaine
of Osmington House would have turned some da'
from loves of fiction to those of real life; have abjectly
adored some male with an eye to pelf and the main
chance. Over head and ears, despite his rent-roll,
my lord would have roared and cursed at the question
of a dowry, and there would have been hearts broken,
wigs on the green. Did Charlotte suggest — how little
she must know about it ! — that a disinterested millionaire
would probably have turned up ready to espouse
undowered beauty? " Fiddlededee ! Men do not
run after penniless or low-born brides," declared the
sage Miss Eowe.

Hence it was established beyond gainsaying that
obscurity and a mission was the only possible future
for a girl so awkwardly situated.

All this was plausible ; but Charlotte was not convinced.
'why this frantic devotion to the cause of
Leoline ? " she kept asking herself after her friend's
departure. 'does she care for Leo?" she mused.
"No; I think not, although she appreciates his
genius. Does she care for the good-looking pugilist ?
No; I think not, although she admires his blunt
integrity. This is a bit of quixotism — nothing more
serious — resulting from the fever of a mind that is
temporarily off its balance. She'll weary of it

soon, and return to us. Neither of the young men
have gained her heart. What of them ? The prizefighter's
case is hopeless; his modest adoration is
touching. As for Leone, he loves her — I'm sure he
does, but is too proud and sensitive to say so."

CHAPTEK II.

BAD NEWS FOR CHARLOTTE.

Warwick House was at the best of times a sunless
and cbeary spot. When Abigel was fairly gone it
seemed duller than ever to Charlotte, who, left alone
with the elderly blue-stocking and numerous professors,
tm-ned her mind to her own future, fully
resolved to fight tooth and nail rather than be
banished from England.

The Grand Signor, as we have seen, promised his
old love to be lenient, and rescinded, therefore, his
determination to insist, willy-nilly, on a match with
Orange. But, at the same time, he swore that
Caroline should win no more victories ; that he would
oppose the here noire with all his might, the unscrupulous
woman who waged war without compunction
from behind her offspring.

The visits of Charlotte to her mother had been
stopped some time ago ; but the latter made such a
howling, and dressed up her grievance in such comely
fi-slippery, that it was judged politic to allow the twain

to see each other at long intervals for a few minutes,
attendants being set to watch and report the subject
of their talk. The severity of these measures spurred
Caroline to renewed effort, developed her passion for
intrigue. If Charlotte might no longer listen to
diatribes anent " the brute," she should have pages
of written scandal to digest in the solitude of her
chamber. On one occasion, when it was wet, the
elder lady pressed on the younger a pair of overshoes
to keep her dear feet dry. They were promptly impounded
by an argus-eyed attendant, and found to be
stuffed with documents. " You must stand firm," the
crafty female wrote; "twill make him outrageous,
and the good looks of which he is so proud will not
last long if beaten by his daughter."

The position was a trying one for all parties.
Charlotte was abashed when her mother's petty
manoeuvring was exposed and circumvented. Caroline
was losing ground, for stirring events abroad
were beginning to supplant her shrieks once more,
and as she found herself less and less considered, her
nature grew more acid, her struggles more pronounced
to retain a place in the front. The Whigs became
ashamed of their stalking-horse, and ceased to apply
the bit ; and as it grew more difficult to command
notice, the misguided Princess sought to sustain her
notoriety by fomenting family differences.

Thanks to her mother, the situation of Charlotte

was extremely awkward. Urged thereto by lier, she
grew as morbidly suspicious of her father as he of his
child, weighing and examining every move of his in
search of a hostile motive. The Regent took no pains
to disguise the fact that he wished to remove her from
England for a while, to separate her entirely from
mamma.

How cruel and how unmanly ! " screamed the
Megara. "How like a brute!" But even worse
remained behind. Could not her darling Charlotte
see that he was jealous of the popularity of a young
and pretty girl, anxious to suppress odious comparisons
by timely banishment ? He was jealous of her
youth, since in spite of every art his own was waning.

George was furious — mad with rage; for there
was a grain of truth at the bottom of the accusation.
But for her mother's baneful influence, he
complained, she never would have refused Orange.
If he, the Regent, was to be allowed no feelings, what
right had an heiress presumptive to lay claim to such
possessions ? What could it signify to her, the
heiress presumptive, that William was sallow, could
boast of no calves, had a nose like a grasshopper ?
Princesses have made marriages of convenience time
out of mind ; have sworn to love, honor', and obey,
and all the rest of it, persons they have never seen, of
whom they knew nothing whatever, and no deluge has
supervened. If an alliance with the House of Orange

was deemed advantageous by wiseacres, was it not
just like a rebellious, wrong-headed, hoity-toity minx
to babble of love and such high flown balderdash, as if
she were an ordinary mortal ? It all came of too
much kindness, of having exhibited the man she was
to marry, of having consulted her on the delicate
subject. If, instead of being foolishly considerate,
they had flourished a miniature of a curly Narcissus
grinning through a horse-collar of gems, all would
have been well, a wedding would have taken place by
proxy, and when, too late, she discovered the blooming
creature to be freckled and disfigured by a squint, the
bride would have had nothing for it but to make the
best of her bargain. Stern and cruel forsooth ! Papa's
fault was that he had been too weakly kind. The
Prince of Wales had a happy power of persuading
himself to believe what he desired, and he accordingly
became quite convinced that young ladies do not
know their own minds, are apt to be oblivious of
duties, and that it becomes a benignant and sapient
parent to apply gentle pressure. 'Tis for their own
good; they will acknowledge it by-and-by and be
thankful. The obvious thing to do under the embarrassing
circumstances was to be persuasively
pressing, to use no absolute force ; to try, in a different
way from his, Osmington's favourite recipe.

Vere assured his royal crony that there was nothing
like it, and who should know if not my lord, who was

constantly' applying this principle to an uproarious
menagerie ?

The Regent reflected and felt that Vere was right,
forgetting that, when previous applied, the screw
had produced an outburst. Not that he intended
to shake his fist and use had language ; if it was
not all Balmy the fault should he none of his. Indeed,
he had no opportunity of interfering personally
even if he would, of being seductive or rude ; for no
sooner did papa begin to drone again on the subject
of tu-some Orange, than the froward damsel took the
bull by the horns, shut herself up in her nunnery,
and pleaded toothache or the megrims whenever her
father called. She declined to see him, for she knew
what it was that he required, and her mind was, as
she thought, fully made up. She had seen Orange,
had conversed, danced, ridden with him, and did not
like the swain. Not only were Daphnis and Chloe
indifferent one to the other, but mutually repellent.
William was silly and easy-going, ready to be a willing
tool in the hands of the Prince of Wales. Charlotte
was lonely, thirsting for sympathy, bubbling with
vague longings, harassed by perplexities, boisterous
and tom boyish, in need of a strong nature to act as
guide and keep her exuberance in check. Her rough
ways and sharp temper frightened the Prince of
Orange, who felt that he would be henpecked, whipped,
and put to bed. Had he dared, he would have runaway.

The proposed menage did not look very promising
; but some decision would have to be arrived
at. Both Orange and the Regent were being made a
laughing-stock. Megrims and matrimony — what an
absurd mixture !

If the ailing damsel's tooth was too bad to allow
of an interview with papa, would she see jolly uncle
Fred? Yes, she would, for she was fond of uncle
Fred ; and that jovial warrior reported in due course
that there was nothing the matter with his niece.

The Balmy was applied, and, unexpectedly enough,
the obstinate maid gave way ! It was very hard to
be allowed no feelings, but if the country wished her
to marry a man with a curious nose she would even
do so, would accept the inevitable fate of an heiress
presumptive — but on certain set conditions. She
would take the Prince of Orange, for worse rather than
for better, since it must be so ; would lower her
standard before overwhelming odds, provided she
might reside in England.

But this was the very point on which George was
most tenacious. My lord Liverpool was despatched
to Warwick House to deliver lectures on propriety.
Jovial Frederick prated by the hour about virtue,
duty, and the meekness of ideal maidens. His moral
discourses were most edifying; but Charlotte maintained
throughout an obstinate silence, declining to
be cajoled. She knew her duty quite as well as Fred.

She would be mistress of lier movements, go abroad
or stop at home according to her pleasure, or else she
would not be sacrificed. Her duty was clear enough —
to stop at home. She had said so before, and would
say so again. As future Queen, it was right that the
people should learn to know her, that she should know
the people. Above all, for her miserable mother's
sake, it was her duty to remain at hand and intervene
if need were. She studied precedents like a little
lawyer— gabbled of Mary the First and Mary the
Second and their matrimonial arrangements till
Liverpool was astonished and honest Frederick discomfited.
Luckless Princess ! Acting conscientiously
according to her lights, nobody was pleased
with what she did. Orange knew not what to make
of it. "What a terrible wife was this with whom he
was threatened ! Papa was cross and pettish. Ungrateful
mamma was least satisfied of all. Her coarse
nature was rendered horny and callous by events.
She could afford no affection for the child who strove,
as far as conscience allowed, to become her paladin.
On certain conditions Charlotte was ready to give way
to her father's will. That was enough for Caroline,
who was always advising disobedience.

*' She cares not three straws ! " complained her
Pioyal Highness to one of the Comus crew. **If my
daughter love me, I love her ; I can't bear those who
are neither one ting nor t'other, neither cold nor hot.

If she no care for me, why would I waste love on
her ? "

All things considered, it is not surprising that the
nunnery became more dreary and more sunless, and
that its occupant showed signs of developing into a
Niobe.

So Abigel bade farewell to her friend, and departed
by the Yorkshire coach, promising to send reams by
every post, exhorting Charlotte to do what conscience
said was right, however bitter temporary trials ; and
when she was gone Charlotte felt very miserable,
praying for steadfastness to endure. The Balmy was
a distinct failure, the circle at Carlton House agreed.
When maidens are obdurate the screw must be
turned on sharply. The strings that had been slackened
were drawn in again. Months passed over the
weary head of the novice — ghastly empty months,
whose monotony was only broken by a change of
teachers. The drawing lesson, the harp lesson, the
guitar lesson, the German lesson, the political discourse,
— so many nicks on a stick, like Eobinson
Crusoe's calendar. Since she declined to do as she
was bid, her days must be passed with Vasari and
Dizzy and toothless old Ventura — Ventura, Dizzy, and
Vasari. Such a state of things could not last long.
The maiden buoyed herself up with the knowledge
that her dismal childhood was over; that with the new
year would come her majority. On the seventh day

of January she would be eighteen, of fitting age to
reign, if Heaven should think proper to remove her
papa and grandfather. Being of age, even the wicked
ogre to whom she owed her being could not immui*e
her any more. True, he had threatened to allow her
no establishment until there was a husband to govern
it, but he would not be so unkind as to carry out the
threat. Well, well ! even if he were to do so, what
then ? Much as she longed for freedom to enjoy
youth and life and a high position, she had been
thrown back upon herself till, though yet in her teens,
she had learned patience. Conscious that she was
doing right in an exceptionally difficult position, she
would even continue to take weariful lessons, if so
ordained, thankful in that study and seclusion were
barriers against annoyance. But she reckoned
without her host. It was ordained that the young
Princess should never remain unworried. Caroline,
struggling for notice, sniffed an opportunity, and
screeched, with rancorous cries, that she had not beheld
her sweet pet for five months, and that it was abominable
to deprive a parent of the joy of congratulating
her child on her majority. Public opinion was on
the side of the Princess of Wales ; so Charlotte was
reluctantly permitted to pay a state visit to Connaught
House (Caroline's new abode, for she had been expelled
from Kensington), from which she returned
upset and furious. Caroline had been interested and
VOL. II. 25

sugary, had professed pained concern that no notice
had been taken of the birthday ; to which Charlotte
had responded, in genuine surprise, that festivities were
postponed for the present on account of the expenses
of the war.

"Faddle, my pet," whispered ago. "Tout le
monde has been hoping for promotions, for emancipation
from prisons ; and tout le monde is indignant
for my outraged child. You believe their excuses ?
Then you are quite a baby, and they are right to keep
you in de nursery."

The result of the visit was soon evident. The fictitious
state of peacefulness into which she had sunk
deserted the girl. The dormant longings were aroused.
Charlotte pined and wasted and became really ill.
The janitor. Miss Knight, flew across the yard to
Carlton House and delivered herself of a grave report.
The Kegent was frightened, and, cursing all unmanageable
maids, gave up both the Balmy and the Brutal.
He wished to break her obstinate stubbornness, not to
injure his child's health. A few decorous dinners
were got up in the Gothic cathedral ; some dowagers
and forms were invited to meet the Princess and
hobnob with her dear uncles. And George sat the
while at the head of his table frowning, for the here
noire had scored again.

The Regent was firm, though, in the matter of the
establishment. It would not do to confess himself

vanquished ; so the young Princess was kept in leading
strings, although permitted to leave the nursery.
She might have a few new gowns, it was decided, and
visit certain houses.

A brilliant chance soon presented itself of permitting
the novice to peep through a chink upon the
world, and of repaying Caroline's Poland with a
deliciously telling Oliver. If affairs at home were
still gloomy and complicated, the aspect of things
abroad was rosy. The hopes founded on the return
of Lord Castlereagh to the Cabinet were not doomed to
disappointment. His political sagacity and energetic
attitude roused the spirits of fainting Europe, imbued
Russia with the courage to arise and face her imperious
taskmaster. Napoleon, intoxicated with
success, and furious at the pebble that stayed his
chariot wheel, announced in his oracular style that
Eussia was no more, and followed up his oracle with
movements calculated to insure its fulfilment. With
half a million of the best counters ever employed to
play the game of ambition, he crossed into the doomed
provinces — and came to grief himself. His defeat
was measureless. Of the multitudes who had followed
over the Niemen, a forlorn sprinkling returned.
But he was too genuine a hero to confess himself
beaten by even so o'erwhelming a disaster. Within a
few months Bonaparte again appeared in the field
with a new army ; fought with success at Lutzen and

Bautzen, but at Leipzig was repulsed once more.
The shattered remnant of his forces was hunted to
the walls of Paris, where he himself was compelled
to pass under the yoke and accept the terms of the
conqueror. It was generally admitted that this change
in the complexion of affairs was due to England, the
result in their several departments of the labor's of
Wellington and Castlereagh. It was natural, therefore,
that the heads of those nations who had been
encouraged to throw off their shackles should visit
the Court of him to whose servants the change was
due. Accordingly, about the middle of the year 1814,
royalties of every compacted up their smartest
uniforms, and proceeded on a pilgrimage to London.
It was in March that the Allies entered Paris, and on
the 11th of April that the treaty was signed — greatly
to the dissatisfaction of Lord Castlereagh, who objected
to an eyrie being chosen for the clipped eagle
so near to his old haunts. Even with maimed wings
the bird might hop from Elba to the Gallic coast. Lord
Castlereagh foresaw a renewal of the effort to regain
his former home, but in the universally at a prospect
of peace the croaking of the statesman were unheeded.
In the belief that war was completely at an
end, London went raving mad — not London alone, the
kingdom. Taxation, starvation, oppression, even the
large laundry where so much business was done, all
were temporarily forgotten ; and the lieges, tightening

belts over empty stomachs, hallooed and capered and
made believe to be vastly happy. As the dull champaign
bursts into jocund light upon the breaking of
the thunder-cloud, so did gulled England sing paeans
and indulge in double-shuffles. The price of bread,
meat, the necessaries of life, would fall within the
means of a ground-doT^^i multitude ; the storm was
over, the sun shone out at last — hurrah, hurrah ! The
British mob are not, I suppose, more silly than the
rabble elsewhere ; and yet, while we applaud their
antics, we cannot but be astonished at their illogical
and prejudiced reasoning. The land where every one
had been grunting and grumbling for so long, became
by touch of a wand a scene of general delight. Public
business, private industry, gnawing anxiety, black
care, gave place to pageants, fetes, illuminations.
The banished Bourbon king and his august family,
obese Louis and corkscrew-visaged Madame d'Angou-
lee, arrived in town in royal carriages, preceded by
the Regent in a new wig, grinning, smirking, showering
cheap blessings, — a lovely spectacle. London
ran to see and to shout hurrah ! Every one craned
out of window.

The only one who could not see anything was
Charlotte, who was fain to beg a seat at the Pulteney
Hotel, like a country cousin, and witness the show
from a balcony. That was an unintentional slight.
It was so difficult to know what to do with bouncing

Charlotte, who was neither out nor in now. If she
only would marry Orange her position would be
settled — and then ! But with so pig-headed a young
person there was no use in recurring to that. There
was another little arrangement, however, which was
by no means accidental, and the deft management
thereof was nuts to his Royal Highness. When
every one else was gone crazy, it is not to be supposed
that the Princess of Wales could escape the general
contagion, or appear more sane than usual. In
honour of the foreign royalties the Queen was to hold
two Drawing-rooms, and as the Regent must needs be
present, it became the duty of her Majesty to inform
the Princess that she could not be received at either.
This was provocation enough for the inflammable
nature of Caroline. Letters passed, dozens of letters-what
a wonderful hand she was at correspondence ! —
to all of which she received the cold answer that the
Piegent refused to meet his wife in public or in private.
A Drawing-room, perhaps, was no great matter in itself :
a curtsy, an exhibition as of waxwork, the clothes
torn off your back, and then the influenza. But the
fact of non-attendance at a Drawing-room precluded
the banished individual from participation in any of
the projected /eics. Thus by a cunning stroke Caroline,
who doubtless would have chosen the moment to air
her griefs, found herself checkmated. Her own conduct
had been so reckless, vile, and malicious that

she deserved the punishment, yet felt it none the less,
and was driven to implore countenance from Charlotte,
at whom she had jeered, to save her from so humiliating
a quandary. The girl was hurt that her
mother should be publicly snubbed before the royalties,
but what could she do ? As the parental squabbles
were always being paraded under the world's nose, it
was only in the nature of things that the allies
should in their turn be invited to admire. But she
could scarce, for all that, preserve a bearing of fitting
dignity while Leoline called one day to explain the
dilemma of mamma.

She was sitting in her cell-like boudoir when the
poet came to Warwick House, fitting over a little
picture of herself thirty or forty dresses made of
isinglass, which allowed the contour of the figure to
show through the transparent costumes, as the indecent
fashion was. A nice amusement, he thought,
for a girl of eighteen — like playing with a doll ; and
then he was sorry to see the result of a warped
training. The Princess was as little gay as her prison,
and could only summon the phantom of a smile when
he attempted to enliven his lugubrious news by the
insertion of piquant anecdotes. Of course, he observed,
she knew that the Prussian and Russian
monarchs and grandees had sailed from Bologna to
Dover, convoyed by the British fleet under his Grace
of Clarence, and that their Majesties had been so ill

as to VOW that Neptune was more terrible than
Bonaparte ? Had she read the glowing account in
the Morning Chronicle ? No, she had not, she answered
with a blush. Indeed, she carefully eschewed
the popular journal, for was it not the organ of
Megaera for the airing of her wrongs ? She had been
informed, doubtless, that the hero of the moment
was General Blucher, who went to bed in his boots,
and smoked a porcelain pipe, thereby winning for
himself the detestation of the first of European
gentlemen ?

Don't, pray ! " Charlotte interrupted impatiently.
'* I'm in no humour for nonsense. Mamma has
brought it on herself, and in this I cannot interfere,
though I know how angry she will be; I am sorry,
for it will look bad before the kings. She has no
right to be angry with me, considering how I am
ignored. Abigel is gone, alas! or she'd help me to
come to a decision, as to what line I ought to take.
Mrs. Lewis, my dresser, says that the fete last night
at Carlton House was like fairyland. A river ran
the length of the tables filled with silver-fish ; and
at one end the wall seemed made of gold, so rich was
the display of plate. Yet I was not there, though
I live but fifty yards off."

Do you care so much hoi fetes ? " asked Leoline.

** I've never had the chance of trying," responded
the Princess. "But I really am to come out in time

for the ball and the Garter installation ; at least,
Lord Liverpool says so."

'' Who will present you ? For you must be
presented first."

Ah ! There's the rub," said Charlotte. *' The
Queen insists that I shall be regularly presented,
though surely in my case the ceremony might be
waived. They do it to make the absence of my
mother the more conspicuous ; but if I refuse to go on
that ground 'twill be an excuse to lock me up again.
Oh, if Abigel were here ! By the way," she remarked
abruptly, " did you see Abigel before she went ? "

'' No," Leoline replied.

You know Where's she's gone, and what she went
for ? "

She went back to the country, I suppose ; and
I am so glad ! Osmington House and the protection
of that scoundrel were dangerous, even to one so
self-reliant as little Abby."

'* I miss her. Do you ? "

Alack, yes ! " sighed LeoHne. " When the sun
moves to brighten other climes, leaving us desolate,
who does not envy those who are basking in light and
warmth ? "

That is poetic, but means nothing," Charlotte
observed bluntly. *' What if she has resolved to
devote her time to the substantiating of your claims ? "

Leoline started in amazement ; but Charlotte, who

was on the look-out for a sign of pleasure, could
detect none.

"Do you know," he said after a while, "that I
heartily wish everything connected with the Northallertonss
was at the bottom of the sea ? "

'because you lack energy," said the reproachful
Princess.

Not so. Because it pains me to see one I love
start off on a wild-goose chase. Nothing tangible
will ever come of these claims."

Then you do love Abigel ? "

"I — love?" exclaimed Leoline, confused. "How
could I do otherwise? Who that comes under her
spell can prevent himself from loving her ? "

Platitudes, master poet ! " smiled Charlotte.
Supposing she were to arrive in a chaise with your
coronet for luggage ? "

The young man shivered, and paused before
answering. At length he said slowly, " You have
detected what I hoped was known only to myself, and
I pray you on my Imees never to recur to it again*
I have had more to endure even than you in my
short career, though you would not have me say so.
The vision of my dying mother in rags on a truss
of straw, talking with labouring breath and glazed
eyes about coronets and dignities, will never leave
my memory — 'twas such an awful satire upon earthly
ambition, such a pregnant lesson. A poet's yearning

is different, for a great poet is a great teacher, a
benefactor to humanity — a finger like a church spu-e
pointing upwards — refining and improving those who
hearken to his words. But who that aims high ever
reaps a reward here below ? Yom' successful painter,
playwright, author, is pretty sure to be a charlatan ;
for thought is a labour both to him who would teach
and him who is to be taught, and both agree nowadays
to follow a meretricious middle course which shall
require no such effort on either side."

But if it were given to Abby to trace your
lineage ? Under your wide-spreading trees you could
preach without asking a reward beyond that of
attention and respect. I've settled it. You shall
write an epic ; Abby shall endow you with your
lands. You will marry her and be haj^py ever after.
That is the programme."

Do not ! Do not ! " cried Leoline with hot pain.
'' She will never, sweet soul, find the clue to the
labyrinth ; and I, a vagabond, would rather cut out
my tongue than ask her to be mine. That is another
lesson taught by the sad vision on the truss of straw.
Through fault of mine she never shall be brought to
that ! "

"But if she took some one else how would you
feel?"

*' I would pray for her happiness," was Leo's
subdued reply.

The singularity of this mild attitude was so foreign
to Charlotte's own temper that it set her thinking,
and she might have attempted to delve deeper, had
not the young man recovered his self-possession,
and entered without further circumlocution upon the
object of his mission.

"Leave Abigel alone, and me," he said, with a
certain sternness. *' Instead of fretting about balls
2indi fetes to which you are not bidden, employ your
mind on something more serious — something with
which you alone can grapple."

Charlotte looked up in alarm. " Speak out. What
is it?" .

Set your mind to the successful combating of
your mother's last project."

** And that is ? " The Princess grew pale, for each
new project of her mother's was sure to be more
regrettable than the last.

The disgrace to which she is subjected before the
allied sovereigns proves to be the final straw. Even
the small restraint to which, as you know, she is
subjected here is growing irksome. She has often
hinted at it ; now she solemnly swears that she will
leave England and take up her residence abroad."

Charlotte lay back in her chair an image of
speechless consternation. " Going abroad ! " she
echoed faintly; *rand here have I been fighting the
whole family, single-handed, so as not to be banished

out of reach. Going abroad ! " And the perplexed
Charlotte sat staring, open-mouthed, at the bearer
of evil tidings.

*' She wants the royalties to call on her, so that
she may ask them to intervene — to procure a pension
for her with which she may go and come unshackled."

The young Princess was filled with dismay. Her
proud spirit rebelled at the idea of the visitors,
immediately on arrival, being inducted by Caroline
herself into the family laundry. What must they
think of the British reigning house? So ashamed
was she, that for a moment she felt impelled to mew
herself up more closely than ever within the
hermitage and forget the outer world with its
humiliations. She had striven so hard to think well
of her mother — to make believe at least to do so, —
had been so rejoiced when respectable people visited
Connaught House ; had even indulged in a crocus
vision of some day lending a helping hand, with the
assistance of an obedient husband, to drag mamma
out of the mud. But what if she were to go abroad ?
Of what excesses might she not be capable, careering
across the Continent ?

Though Charlotte was not fully aware of how
depraved her mother was, she could not be blind
to at least a portion of the truth. Should she
go abroad, she would inevitably be ruined. Her
child saw that with painful clearness. And there

were other reasons for deploring this mad resolve.
Out of sight is out of mind. Absence is a terrible
test of human attachment. The person who voluntarily
forsakes those over whom he should preside,
has no right to expect the continuation of love and
loyalty. The support of the people had been the
one bond which united the Princess to a semblance
of respectability. Though her party found it convenient
to look coolly on her just now, the mob still
chose to behold an injured woman. But if the
woman wilfully abandoned her place, ran riotous rigs
with mean adventurers, the position of martyr could
scarcely be maintained, the wanderer's deeds could
not be hushed up — she would become an outcast.

This was the picture conjured by Leoline's warning
upon the mind's eye of the young Princess. She
was obliged to confess with bitterness that she could
discern no way of averting a catastrophe. If she
might see her mother, surely a daughter's tears and
arguments and entreaties would prevail. But visits,
except at long intervals, were sternly interdicted ;
and the girl felt with boiling grief that each step
lower on her mother's part was a triumph to her
father; that the more besmirched she became the
more bright did he himself appear ; that her condemnation
was his acquittal. There was no use in
imploring the Prince to take steps in order to prevent
that for which he longed ; and after all, advanced

as matters were, what could be accomplished by his
intervention ? On her side, Caroline was little likely
to obey. The Regent could scarcely be expected to
say, " Yes, you are a black sheep — a querulous, ill-mannered,
uncleanly, abandoned woman, and I ama
sensitively fastidious man. Yet will I take you
to my arms, and wipe away the mire from your wool
with my scented cambric pocket-handkerchief." Such
conduct would be too transcendently sublime for a
mere mortal ; for was she not the symbol of his
distresses, the cause of a long series of harassing
vexations ? Poor Charlotte felt in an uncertain way
that it was her place to do something, and yet her
hands were tied. What could she possibly do ? It
was some consolation to think that time must elapse
before Caroline could carry out her project. Meanwhile
Charlotte would pray that her mind might be
changed, and would look out for an opportunity of
expostulating with her erring parent.

CHAPTEK III.

THE OPERA.

Was it kind of Leo to add gall to the nauseous
draught which the young heiress to the throne was
called upon to sip daily ? It pained him to give pain
to her ; but he felt the urgent necessity of doing something
to prevent Caroline from leaving England, and
naturally turned to the girl who could be so sturdy on
her own behalf, and adjured her to take up arms tO'
save her mother. 'Twas virtuous of him to act as he
did, for, from his point of view, it would be better for
the Princess to go abroad. His place in the new
menage at Conn aught House was no more agreeable
than in the old one at Kensington. He was twenty-two
now, and the shady company who ruled the roast
were repulsive to him on every count. He made no
attempt to conceal his abhorrence for the Comus crew,
and they rem-ned his dislike with compound interest.
Dissatisfied with his present and his future, he had
wished long ago for an excuse to leave his patroness,,
but as she sank in the world a sense of grateful

loyalty retained him at her side, and rendered a
separation more difficult of accomplishment. He was
uncertain whether to be thankful or not for her
interference at Stratton-on-the-Fosse. True, she had
rescued him fi'om the blacksmith, which was something.
But then, if she had not done so, he would
have been dead ere this — have shuffled off a coil
which was unpleasant wear. The falseness of his
position rankled in his heart and chafed his proud
and sensitive nature. Since it was evident that she
never would take steps to test his claims, why would she
not call him Green or Gubbins, and permit him to
forget the earldom of Northallerton ? The more he
thought it over, the more he was convinced that his
mammy had been the victim of hallucination, the
more anxious he grew to set aside foolish aspirations
which were never to be realized. Abigel was the only
person who troubled herself now about his claims ;
but even she, while appreciating to the full the value
of a seat in the Upper House, admitted that his desire
to carve a name for himself was fine and worthy
of admiration. Dear, pretty, sympathetic Abigel !
She had fled away fi'om the wicked city, and Leo was
relieved yet saddened ; for she could comprehend his
thoughts, follow his train of reflection, even add a
tiny pearl of her own sometimes to the string which
he was threading. The hours he spent with her were
oases in a bleak existence. The future was like a
VOL. n. 2G

long dark passage, with the door at the end close shut,
against which he was doomed alone to knock. Better
so. Abigel was gone, and while he regretted her
absence he rejoiced in her emancipation — her return
to the brawling streams and soughing woods that do
not batten on scandal or vilify their neighbours.
There was nothing to be gained by yearning after
the maid who had passed out of his life. Why should
he and she ever meet again? There was nothing
that could ever take him back to Yorkshire; there
was nothing that could bring her back to town after
recent bitter experiences.

No ; the young poet was determined not to hanker
after the impossible, or to strive to force that door,
but to be content with the contemplation of the present.
What could be done for his royal mistress ? Ever
since the departure of the handsome lazzaroni the
restlessness of Caroline had become more intense.
The elder Sapios and other cormorants remained to
cheat and rob her ; but it was less pleasing to have
her pocket picked by hags and ugly old men than by
a sighing stripling with beautiful eyes. As for the
Comus cohort, its members were outrageously rude,
taking an ell where she gave an inch, behaving with
such open disrespect as to raise a blush of mortification
under the rouge upon her cheek. There were
moments when Leoline felt inclined, calling domestics
to his aid, to eject them in a body from the house ;

but then Madam Ambrosia would intervene, bidding
him mind his business. "It is no use, my dear'*
she would remark, " to confer benefits which will be
resented. Her Royal Highness will not thank you
for your pains, since interference from subordinates
would be a tacit reproach to her. Eemember the
old story of the man who rescued the would-be suicide,
and received abuse for his guerdon. If she will go to
the dogs, she will. As for me, I'm a battered old
soldier whom it would be hard to corrupt. You, on
the other hand, with your peach-like pink and white
complexion and golden hair, are quite too good for our
untimely globe. But take the old soldier's advice.
Put up with that which may not be helped. Eat your
bread and butter, as much as you can get, and look
the other way the while." Ambrosia's counsel was
undeniably wise. Abby, when the company of her
protector became unendurable, could run off to her
great-aunt. Leo had no great-aunt or any relation
whatsoever to whom to run. Were he to vex the
Princess she might give him his cone, and what then ?
How was he to earn his living ? His strong young
stomach was seasoned to bad food and worse wine.
Even poets must eat and drink; and though everyone
declared his sonnets to be vastly sweet, he did not
see his way as yet to the turning of them into guineas
from the booksellers. As he remarked to Charlotte,
the pursuit of literature and the fine arts, in their

,,cQ^\TV of

higher branches, must always be, save in rare instances,
a labour of love. Was not " Paradise Lost "
sold for fifteen pounds or thereabouts ?

When, revolted by the desertion of her party and
exclusion from Court fetes, and panting for unchecked
saturnalia, Caroline broached the subject of retirement
from England, Leoline felt, with a heart-leap, that such
an arrangement might mean for him rescue from the
quagmire. The Princess, he thought, was too fickle
in her affections to be attached for long to any one,
and doubtless would be glad to leave her page at home
along with the chairs and tables, rather than drag
about a youth whose tastes were so different from her
own, whose looks were big with silent protest. Since
she had no fault to find with him she could hardly
throw him over altogether; would probably make
him a small allowance on which he could live in
company with the Muses, who are notoriously small
eaters. But then his better nature got the better
of this first throb of selfishness. For her sake
she must be prevented from doing that whereby he
would benefit. Conscience whispered that it was
incumbent on him, in return for many kindnesses,
to combat her plan to the utmost extent of his ability,
since it would be sheer madness on her part to leave
England now. Contrary to his own interests, therefore,
he summoned Charlotte to assist in the work ; but
Charlotte vowed with tears that she was powerless

help, and the pair looked about in vain for a
friendly obstacle wherewith to stay the descending
chariot on its headlong course.

Her Majesty held the Drawing-rooms, and the heiress
presumptive appeared for the first time in public, and
was much admired. The illustrious guests went
everywhere with the Prince Kegent, and were followed
by shouting crowds. The circle of distinguished
visitors was usually attended by him who had pulled
the strings of the puppets, and who now held the post
of showman. Every one agreed that my lord Castlereagh
had given new life to the struggle from the
period of his accepting office, by the energy which had
directed negotiations, the skill which had arranged
coalitions, the tact that had suppressed jealousies,
the judgment which had suggested plans. He took
his place in the triumphal march, and received his
share of plaudits. Heavens ! what a mob of kings,
and princes, and generals ! and how they were
feted on all sides ! Oxford gave an entertainment
whose magnificence became historical. The City
followed suit. My lady Hertford gave a gorgeous
ball. My ladies Salisbury and Buckinghamshire
were there, and all the elite, but no Princess of Wales.
Honest Blucher declared that, unconquered by the
French, he was falling a vanquished victim before the
bombardment of British hospitality, and would surely
perish of indigestion. Louis the obese gave dowdy

parties in a dismal den in South Audley Street, and
cynical people stared with wonder at the sour vulgar
countenance of the daughter of Marie Antoinette.
The dandified Alexander was declared a pretty fellow.
The handsome boys of the stupid King of Prussia
were much approved. Everybody was delighted with
everybody, even with the Prince of Wales, who shared
the transient popularity enjoyed by his glittering guests.
Caroline, in the midst of all the junketing from
which she was excluded, had much mortification to
put up with, but this last item was the heaviest
burthen of all. That the horrid wigged creature
should be cheered, actually cheered, instead of hooted
as heretofore, was wormwood to his wife. He and
the glittering throng passed from ovation to ovation ;
she was as if dead and buried. The cleverly arranged
exclusion from the Drawing-rooms had done its work.
She was asked nowhere. Even when White's took
its turn to give a ball of a mixed order, the cards
were sent to George that he might draw out the list.
It was necessary to prevent a repetition of that affair
of the masquerade, and his Royal Highness took
minute precautions. Day after day the Princess of
Wales put on her best turban and front of glossiest
curls, and sat waiting for visits from the royalties,
and every evening she took them off again and
pretended not to care. But while she smiled and
revenged herself by out-herding Herod at the evening

orgies at Bayswater, her heart was consumed with
rage, her feelings towards her daughter changed from
indifference to enmity. What did she mean by
attending granny's Drawing-room, and daring to look
pretty in white crape and pearls, while mamma was
heaped with obloquy ? She was a nasty ungrateful
slut to treat her mother so, and that she should have
tumbled down and hurt her knee, and be thus prevented
from dancing, was a judgment direct from
Heaven. It reached her ears that the Emperor of
Russia had actually stepped into his carriage to call
at Connaught House, when he was stopped by Lords
Liverpool and Castlereagh. It was too bad. She
would write to the papers, and did accordingly.

The Park was daily crowded by a brilliant host.
Kings, emperors, grandees, drove about amid a multitude
of buzzing spectators. The beautiful Duchess
of Oldenburg attracted great attention by her dress.
The Oldenburg bonnet, indeed, became the rage. It
was so long in the poke and so high in the crown that
Grimaldi caricatured it on the stage by appearing ina
coal-scuttle with a chimney-pot atop of it, wreathed
with carrots. The English ladies were equal to the
occasion. My word, what dresses ! Chaste morning
costume. No. I. A white jaconet muslin, buttoned
down the front with white Eegency buttons, and trimming
formed en lozenge. Handkerchief, gloves, and
sandals of dragon-fly green. Eed velvet round cap,

trimmed with white fur, a rose in front. No. II.
White muslin gown made with epaulets, a military
front a la hussar in cloth, with canonical sleeves. An
English mobcap ornamented with a rose. Scarf and
shoes of celestial blue. No. III. A three-quarter pelisse
of orange or tawny velvet or kerseymere, trimmed with
lace a la Vandyke, An Oliver Cromwell tippet, edged
with lace. Wellington cap, same colour as military
front, ornamented with long drooping ostrich feather.
White kid sandals and gloves. These fashionable
costumes were invented and executed by the ingenious
Madam Osgood, the well-known modiste of Lower
Brook Street.

Charlotte was permitted to drive round the ring in
all the glory of a new carriage and a new frock,
attended by the objectionable Orange and other young
gentlemen. The Princess of Wales attempted to getup
a demonstration on her own account, since she was
utterly cast aside ; donned a startling pelisse of scarlet
velvet and ermine, although it was June, with an eye
to picturesque effect ; but was ruthlessly stopped at
the Park gates, and advised to continue her drive in
the direction of Lamp stead or Highgate.

In her seclusion at Brighton Mrs. Fitzherbert read
of these things, and was sorry. Although you may
suffer much at the hands of a woman ; although you
may look on her with justice as the evil genius of
your life, yet it becometh not a man to descend to

IDetty vengeance. Dear Florizel was never prone to
forgive, and his loyal Maria sighed as she put down
the journal. How strange it was in one so amiable
and kind ! But are we not all made up of paradox ?
and is not an unforgiving nature a distinguishing
trait of the family of Guelph ?

Galled and smarting under the series of petty
slights, Caroline beat about for a means of becoming
actively unpleasant. The orgies at *' Trou Madame "
were deprived of a portion of their charm, in that
his Koyal Highness would not condescend to notice
them in any way whatever. Fond as she was of
pouring out her sorrows in the Morning Chronicle, she
could not well write, " I am dong everything that is
most disreputable : I frequent with a select party of
low men a secret haunt in Bayswater. It is impossible,
in outward seeming at least, for any married woman
to be more abandoned, and I am driven to behave
thus by the horrid conduct of my husband." Even
she could feel that it would not do to write thus, and
she was gnawed by anger, in that no one would be
troubled to take offence at her misdemeanours.
This rendered her more anxious than ever to leave
England, more rabid to seek pastures new upon the
Continent. Friends accused her of forcing herself
continually on the public, instead of maintaining a
dignified reserve like the ex-Empress Josephine. Dignified
reserve was beyond her comprehension. She

would go away, but ere she went would create
another scandal. To that desirable end she ordered
a new sartorial marvel, as recollected as possible, and
a leopard-skin tippet with gold tassels, and announced
that she would attend the Opera. " If the grandees are
not civil enough to visit me," quoth her Royal Highness,
" why, I will visit them."

During the Eegency, the Italian Opera in the Hay-market
was an institution patronized by the ton
because it was the fashion, not because they liked it.
At the beginning of the century, it was impossible to
procure a seat anywhere in the house without a
voucher from a lady patroness. After the singing
and ballet were over, a collation was served, and a
dance given in the upper concert-room. Thus it was
a sort of neutral ground, one shade less exclusive than
Almack's, but far above the ridotto style of amusement,
of which we have seen a specimen. But at the
time which now occupies us, stringent rules were relaxed.
Tickets could be bought under the regime of Mr.
Waters, but the strictest etiquette was still enforced
as regards costume, a gentleman being only admitted
in white silk stockings, buckles, ruffles, and chajoeaii
bras. On a Drawing-room day ladies would appear
in their Court dresses, and a fine show they made — a
parterre of high-born beauty, illumined by the new
light which was beginning to shine upon the town.
In 1805 an illuminating power was tried at the Lyceum,

called gas, but was flouted by the scornful public as
dangerous, absurd, and stinking. In 1813 it was tried
again, with better success ; the bridge of Westminster
being resplendent with yellow jets ; and in this current
year of 1814 the whole of Westminster fell
under the spell, and all public places were lighted
with the mal-odorous vapour. When I say lighted, I
am open to correction, for passages were frequently
found in darkness when they ought to have been clear
as day, owing to the going out of the inflammable air,
whose management was ill understood. One lady
wrote to the papers on the subject (after the manner
of Caroline), complaining that on leaving the Opera
she was constantly tumbling over footmen and Bow
Street officers in the dark, while street sneaks stole
her diamonds ; and all because they would try silly
experiments with a fetid folly, instead of being content,
as their grandfathers had been, with sober and respectable
oil.

Such accidents might be allowed to occur on ordinary
days, but on gala nights the absurd vapour
gave place to wax candles, and the place was really
brilliant with the mellowest and most becoming of
illuminations.

Many considered the Italian Opera as a singular
anomaly in England, since none understood the language,
and nobody could hear the music owing to the
cackle in the boxes. Although it was de rigueur

ABIGEL ROWE.

to pay two hundred pounds a year for a box, no lady of
fashion would dare to be seen in it for the first six
weeks of the season. Till the second week in May
the box was lent to creditors or friends of the
J'cmme che chambre, who sat as a jury on untried
dancers, gravely judging of rival merits in the performance
of the pirouette. During these early weeks
the music was possibly audible, but never later ; for
the fashionable darlings considered it sufficient to give
their applause rather than their attention, shrieking
out, " How divine ! " or " Really quite charming ! " in
intervals of conversational clatter. And then the
noise in Fops' Alley was of a bewildering kind. Fops'
Alley was a railed-off passage in front of the pit,
where dandies elected to lounge who thought their
figures showed to more advantage in a standing than
in a sitting posture. They wagged their chapeaux
bras, and dropped their canes, and hallooed to friends
in the boxes, thereby becoming a greater nuisance
than the fops of an earlier time, who considered it the
thing to occupy chairs upon the stage. While Cam-pores
or Tramerani or Grassini were performing,
dialogues were bawled through slamming doors,
wherein Melton Mowbray, Miss Rosa's legs, and
the House of Commons were mingled in delightful
confusion. Box panels were ever on the move, for it
was a matter of prestige in a modish belle to be constantly
changing her company and bandying shouted

gossip. Fancy the feelings of the lonely Lady Jane
"svhen she perceives the opposite reception ground
inundated ^vith sparkling beaux, and the gaze of a
scrutinizing rival levelled in triumph through a glass.
She resolves to give up town, cut her acquaintance,
retire to a cool grot, and repent of her many sins.
Then comes a tap, and an attractive dandy enters.
Straightway a sullen silence gives place to repartee,
moody scowls to sunny smiles, especially if the Lady
Susan is looking this way, who has been angling
these ten weeks with shameless perseverance to
catch the gold-fish for unmarriageable Margaret.

Let me consult Madam Osgood yet again as to
fashionable evening attire.

No. I. Robe of white crape, train peppered with
roses. White shoes with diamond rosettes. Hair
ad lib. Scarf of maiden blush. No. II. White satin
with stomacher front, silver lacing, and bunches of
tassels. White shoes and gloves. Hair dressed in
style of Charles II. No. III. An Egyptian robe of
peach-blossom, evening-primrose or lilac, shot with
day-primrose colour. Apron sleeves and front of
crape, en suite, trimmed with rose-buds and terminating
in silver acorns. White satin hat, with high
Regency plume and diamond aigrette. White gloves
and shoes, armlets and earrings of gold. To this
ravishing description. Madam Osgood adds, *' Though
hats are most fashionable, a profusion of jewels is

tasty for an evening soiree. The habiliments of ladies
assume the most splendid appearance. Everything
that is superb, rare, and expensive, regardless of
style, is adapted for the ornamentation of our belles.
Some French dresses have recently been imported,
but have only been adopted by the mattresses a danser,
being too eccentric for English fancies." Dear
Madam Osgood ; bless her memory ! eccentric indeed !
How about the Egyptian robe with a Eegency hat and
feather ?

On this night of nights no one has eyes for any
but the foreigners. Brummel himself passes unnoticed.
But then he languishes under a cloud.
Some say that he's played so wildly of late that a
smash is imminent, but his serene face is too well
tutored to betray secrets. There is no twitch or
ruffle to divulge what he must feel on being rudely
shouldered. Folks are more anxious now for a hair,
from the tail of Platoons horse than a nod of recognition
from the once powerful dictator. Ah well! if
every cloud has a silver lining, sure every earthly
prize has its alloy of dross. The beau, as faultlessly
dressed as ever in buff and blue, meets Alvanley in
the corridor, and asks with perfect calm if his royal
master has yet arrived.

Why ? " demands his friend.

Because," returns Brummel, " I'm going to ask a
favour for the first time in my life. As he won't let

me into Carlton House, I must meet him where
I can."

Not coin, I hope ? " the good-natured Alvanley
inquires.

'why not?"

Because there's none about at present, any more
than in the good old days ; and if there was, I fear the
Regent would not lend it. You've mortally offended
him."

'"I know it; hut a peevish speech in a moment of
annoyance ''

"There are speeches which drop out hy merest accident,
and which yet may never he forgiven," returns
Alvanley, gravely. 'i'd lend myself with pleasure, if
I had it, hut the luck has been so cursedly against
me, that the knockers have had to he taken from the
doors to stop the rioting of duns."

Then you, like me, have got through the money
we raised along with "Worcester ? "

"Yes. It's melted somehow."

Fancy pulling off your own knocker ! I thought
"twas some drunken frolic of belated Corinthians."

"Not at all," retorts my lord. "lean go in and
out by an exit that is unknown to them, and now that
they can make no noise they may cool their heels upon
my doorstep as much as is proper for their health."

Laughing, the two friends take a stroll in the alley,
where beaux are awaiting the coming of the royalties,

cocking their quizzing glasses at every arriving fair,
since to seem blind is the first rule of dandyism.
What a crush and what a hubbub ! At the lobby door
Molyneux the negro, yelling himself hoarse, is selling
tickets for Cribbb's approaching benefit at the Fives-courts.
Hard by, a couple of gentlemen are wrangling
over their last week's account at Tattersall's.
Lady Anne Wyndham, in extreme undress, flirts in a
corner with Lord Petersham. Country cousins elbow
their way, treading on tender toes as they stare right
and left, receiving the anathema of the community.
Yonder comes a City family, who have penetrated sofar
westward to catch a glimpse of Eussia's autocrat.
Papa, a mean-looking little man, in a new snuff colour,
a black satin vest, and Brutus wig, a hat stuck like
a fowl's gizzard beneath his wing ; mamma, a walking
Sun Fire Office, all gold muslin, sham diamonds,
beads, tinsel, tawdry; a pair of dusky daughters
shining with the heat — their heads as thick with roses
as if Flora herself had showered them.

"La, pa! Don't pull so," pants one. "Somebody's
shoved my comb out of my hair, and torn my
new lutestring."

"Never mind," grunts papa, "we're rich enough
to buy more. Wherever's them dratted surrenders ?
Warm work, sir," he says, mopping himself as he is
pushed against the beau. " Pray, sir, might I ask
which are the monsters ? "

Brummel looks down at the coarse person with
raised eyebrows, and says nothing; but Lord Alvanley
informs him good-naturedly that they are still expected.

*you have before you, sir," he adds, laughing,
*' quite as important an individual in his peculiar
way. This is George Brummel."

"Brummel! Brummel!" says the cit, repeating
the name to himself. " Never heard of him — unless —
yes. Aren't you the gent as sang such a capital song
the other night ? "

The well-trained muscles of Alvanley nearly give
way at the idea of Brummel singing a good song
in City society, while the great George himself looks
hurt, in that his fame should be inclosed within so
small a circle.

You are right," whispers Alvanley, while his eye
twinkles. "It is the same man, but he is shy at
receiving compliments in public."

'' Sir," says the cit, bowing, " I shall be happy to
see you at my snug box at Clapham. My gals are
terrible fond of music, and I can give you as good a
bottle of port as any of your fine folk."

Brummel's grey eyes look wicked, and he is about
to make a pert rejoinder, when the City lady ejaculates,
" Law ! whom have we here ? Sure it's Crazy
Jane without her clothes ! And what a lovely youth
with golden locks ! "

Beaux and belles crush respectfully together to make

VOL. ir. 27

a passage, as a full-blown, highly painted person
waddles forward, a mass of poppies and artificial
wheat scattered on her brown wig in grotesque confusion.
As she goes by, leaning on the arm of him
she calls Northallerton, the more prudent of the company
whisper and mutter in astonishment, just as
birds twitter before a coming thunderstorm.

Gad's my life ! " murmurs Alvanley. '' The Princess
in the field again ! There'll be a shindy before
the evening's over."

Princess— what Princess ? " asks the cit. " That
the Princess of Wales? Poor woman! I wish,
though, she'd cover up her body ! "

The party force themselves along, heedless of execrations,
to have a good look at the martyr, and a
highbred old gentleman confronts Brummel with an
angry mien.

"You've cheated my son, sir," he says sternly.
*' Oh ! you may listen, my lord Alvanley, for you area
party to the dirty business. You two, with my son,
a nice trio — raised thirty thousand pounds last
week on your joint securities. Worcester has made a
clean breast of it. You, my lord, can pay at least the
interest, so I've nothing to say on that score, except
to express contempt. But this man is no better thana
swindler. Deeply involved, without a guinea in the
world, he joins in a fishy transaction, knowing that
it is I on whom the loss will fall."

Your Grace presumes upon grey hairs," stammers
Alvanley ; " with Worcester "

Nay, nay," rejoins the Duke of Beaufort,
haughtily; "I'll have no fighting. There's enough
harm done. I've nothing to say to your lordship,
hind neither my son nor I will go out with this low
fellow. I give you notice, Mr. Brummel, that I shall
go to White's tomorrow, and sit there all day for the
purpose of exposing your conduct to the members. I
shall tell them that you have obtained money under
false pretences from the Marquis of Worcester, that
you are a disgrace to society, and unfit to be a member
of that club." With that his Grace made a low
bow, and disappeared in the crowd.

"The man's mad," ejaculated Alvanley, as he recovered
from his surprise. " Talks of fighting to meme
! I'll manage to meet my share of the bill,
some day. What a pother ! and what stuck-up airs
for a peer who's so fond of the Fancy. Brummel,
what's the matter ? Are you ill ? "

The unhappy beau had turned ghastly white, and
was leaning for support against the wall. Stroke
after stroke of disaster was falling upon Fortune's
favourite. The parvenu who had lorded it so royally
over the loftiest was ground into the dust — compelled
to swallow bitterness down to the lowest dregs, and
by a lord whom he contemned because he dabbled in
pugilism ! To be banished from Carlton House was

bad enough, but to be held up to scorn in the temple
where he had reigned was a direful consummation.
How many an aspirant had made his way in consequence
of a nod from Brummel out of that bow
window ! How many nonentities had lolled in Lady
Foley's box, had picked their teeth unchecked in her
Grace of Rutland's, because Brummel smiled on
them ! How many a debutant had kept his tilbury for
hours in front of White's in hopes that Brummel
would say an approving word of his new horse and
dapper groom ! And now to be branded there as a
low fellow and a swindler ! Verily, it was time, like
a hero of Greek tragedy, to veil the head and welcome
the fatal steel.

"Play has been my ruin," he wailed. "And I
took to it to drown disappointment. I'm done for,
Alvanley. Are you superstitious? I am. I picked
up a sixpence one day, a crooked one with a hole in
it, and kept it in my snuff-box. That evening I made
the acquaintance of the Prince of Wales. It dropped
out, and was lost somehow, on the day of that infernal
masquerade. My luck's gone with it, and I'm done
for."

Nonsense ! " cried his friend. But ere he could
say more, there was a stir and a rush. The Regent
had arrived at last, with all his distinguished following.

Brummel set his teeth, and moved forward, humming
a light air.

It is alarming to consider how soon we get used to
being humbled ; how quickly we rebound ; how soon
the sensitive skin grows horny. Jeremy Diddler felt
the first rebuff or two very much, no doubt, but came
at last to be amused at his own shifts — the constant
need of brain-racking to fight the hungry wolf.

With an expression of infantine guilelessness, the
beau advanced towards his royal master, who gave
him a stony glare, as if he existed not, and turned to
converse with his Prussian Majesty.

The crowd made haste to take their places; the noise
lulled in Fops' Alley ; the censor was left high and dry
by the ebbing wave, and stood in the corridor alone.

"They that have money," he hummed, to keep
himself in countenance, " are troubled about it, and
they that have none are troubled without it." But
what was the use of keeping up appearances when
there were none to see? A roar within announced
that the royalties were seated. Should the arbiter
take his place, and look on the opera for the last time ?
Yes ; for the last time ! The sixpence was gone, and
so was his luck. He was completely beggared, and
with favour had lost credit. A hundred eyes had
seen that stony glare. Every one was certain now
that his disgrace was irretrievable. He looked
through a glass panel in a door at the assemblage.
How careless and how gay ! Who cared that he was
drowning— at the last gasp — close by ? When his

place tomorrow would know him no more, who of all
those well-dressed people would be sorry ? Not one
Like the cit, they would murmur his name as though
they had never heard it. There was the comrade of
old times, leaning out of his box, clapping Grassini
with both podgy hands. What could he see in the
squat songstress, whose waist was too high and skirt
too short ? " How fat he's grown ! " mused the crestfallen
beau. " I swear he'll have apoplexy — such an
unpicturesque conclusion ! I wish I'd told him he
was fat; it would have rankled. Who made that
coat, I wonder? Too low in the collar by half an
inch ; too tight under the arms, munching the
shoulders. His neck's a great red roll. I wonder
if he's any notion what he looks like from behind?
Most decidedly a sight of his neck would finish him.
Some time he will, perhaps, in a large mirror. Then
we'll cry quits. Aha ! he's not seen her yet. She'll
revenge me, that's a mercy."

A vision of how the reflection of his back would
grieve his whilom friend some day quite comforted
the beau, and he was turning from the last glimpse
of a bright world he would look upon no more, when
a young dandy arrived in haste who had lingered too
long over his wine. It was a beardless boy, sprung
from nowhere in particular, who flushed crimson
when the great man addressed 'him. Brummel
noticed tie blush with misanthropical amusements

It was the last such compliment, probably, that would
ever be paid to him. When Eve was hunted out of
Eden, I wonder if sufficient presence of mind remained
to her to pluck fruits and blossoms as she fled, to be
treasured up as specimens ; or was she too much
depressed by paucity of garments? Had she lived
under the Eegency that would not have troubled her.
Did she filch here an apple, there a Brobdignagian
peach, to show to little Cain as a relic of what had
been ? Or did the angel at the gate officiate as an
officer of customs, and search her ere he let her go ?
That flush of pleasure was an offering on the altar of
vanity, which it behoved the beau to cherish; but
then he reflected that the lad had not seen that stony
glare, or would have shrunk from the leper like the rest.

Mr. Brown," said the beau, offering two fingers,
"I'm vastly pleased to see you. Excuse me, but
nankeen breeches in summer are preferable to cloth."

"I will order some tomorrow, sir; a thousand
thanks," returned the youth.

Some, Mr. Brown ! " echoed Brummel, sadly.
Half a hundred, maybe ? Millionaire ! "

My name is Jones, sir," murmured the diffident
boy.

*' Ah, Jones, of course. A fairy spectacle this.
I can't stay, unhappily; forced to leave town at
once."

Unfortunate indeed. You will pardon my leaving

you ? " said the young man, who was burning to look
upon that which the critical arbiter deemed a fairy
spectacle.

"Good-bye. Ah, Brown — I mean Jones," cried
Brummel, with a red spot on either cheek-bone, and
a spasmodic assumption of jocosity, " I'm so careless
you haven't any notes about you that you could
spare for a few days — you who can order some nankeen
breeches ? "

"No, I haven't," returned the impatient youth,
wondering at such a speech from the great man, and
disturbed by a hurricane of applause within.

"Jones," Brummel said again, with a clutch at
the departing coat-tail, "wait one moment. You'll
have many chances of coming to the Opera. I am
going away."

There was something solemn about the manner in
which the simple words were said that arrested the
boy. What could the great man mean ?

Brummel held him, with a sickly attempt at
pleasantry. "You are Dick or Tom or Harry, no
matter which; your life's beginning, mine is done.
Don't you owe me something, you rogue? I remember
you now perfectly. Taken with your face, I
offered you a pinch from my snuff-box once, and my
Lady Salisbury asked you to her rout."

That's so," replied Mr. Jones, more and more
astonished.

Soli look on me with reverence, yet I'm but a
husk — hollow, empty ! This is my last appearance
in the world where I was supreme. It'll be something
to tell your grandchildren that you were the
last to see Brummel in his war-paint — that it was
thanks to your kindness that he was able to escape.
For that's what it's come to, Jones. See how I bare
my heart to a stranger, unlock my skeleton-cupboard !
I'm ruined, there ; and throw myself on your mercy —
a pitiable, wretched object. There are reasons why
I must disappear this very night, and I haven't so
much as a guinea to pay post-horses ! "

Mr. Jones was very young, and his heart welled
up with compassion; so, fumbling in the pocket of
his condemned cloth breeches, he produced a bit
of paper.

'' You distress me, sir, exceedingly," he stammered.
^'All I have about me is this fifty-pound note. I'm
ashamed it should be such a trifle ; but — on my
lord "

"No apologies — thanks. God bless you," said
Brummel, hurriedly ; and, as he had announced, the
meteor disappeared without a flash, and London
knew its Arbiter no more. So departs Beau Brummel
from our scene, and I'm glad it should be so, for
his subsequent career is piteous reading. He died
by half-inches — lived for many years at Calais and
afterwards at Caen, subsisting on crumbs from

Alvanley and jovial Frederick, staunch friends who
never forgot him. Step by step he descended, keeping
up as long as he could a ghostly semblance of
his former self, strutting about the stony streets
of small French towns with the same bend of back
and unexceptionable exterior as London had striven
to imitate. But the silver spitting-dish and dressing-case
like an imperial, the primrose gloves and blacking
at five shillings a bottle, the eau-de-cologne and
expensive hairwash and ambrosial wigs, were to the
poor fellow necessaries of existence. It is so easy
to frown at people's oddities when they are out of
your own line, and vow with scorn that the workhouse
is their proper haven. Your sins, good sir,
don't happen to lie in that direction — are possibly,
under your smug exterior, much worse than his.
Possibly, oh intensely respectable reader of this book,
you may harass the unfortunate, be harsh with the
widow, cruel to the orphan when none is looking on,
and yet impress the public with your unimpeachable
respectability by help of a speckless suit and smoothly
shaven chin. Scoff at the poor beau, self-sufficient
Britisher. So many of his sins lay on the surface
that, although no better, I dare say, than Brummel,.
we can afford to tiptilt our noses. If sorely whipped
in this world, in the next shall we escape the lash ?
If such may mercifully be, then doth the beau sleep
his long sleep in peace; for never was sinner on

earth more punished. As little versed in the management
of moneys as his royal master, he got into debt,
became the prey of bailiffs and virago landladies.
He inked his stockings to mask the rents in his
boots ;-sith his o^^vn old and gouty fingers patched
his ragged coats; combed his one wig till it fell to
pieces ; was locked up in the gaol of Caen for debt,
with murderers whose clanking chains kept him
awake o' nights ; suffered at intervals from absolute
starvation, and gave up at last the fruitless struggle
against fate. Before his spirit escaped its prison-house,
he to whom three changes of linen per diem
were essential became a grovelling, filthy, hideous
wreck — so foul that none would sit in the room with
him, — and died at last in a madhouse, a raving lunatic.
Oh, my brethren, shall I improve this tempting
occasion ? No. Being of the male sex I will refrain,
and chant a requiem. Without birth or wealth,
George Brummel established himself on a pinnacle
of fame — a rickety one if you choose, but still a
pinnacle. Instead of toiling, shoulder to shoulder,
on the usual rugged path with other men, he chose
a light and amusing mode of reaching eminence.
And hath he not counterparts in our own day who
do the same and escape hooting ? Men who, with
long hair and curious clothes and eccentric affectations
and arrangements in white and blue, mark the
emptiness of their skulls, and obtain the suffrages

of the public because in their frivolous way they
raise a laugh. They are butterflies whom it is not
worth while placing on a wheel — too small and weak
to be worth crushing. It was by carrying out the
great axiom that if you have sufficient impudence to
brazen it out the world will accept you at your valuation,
that Brummel reached his pinnacle. Gifted with
many showy, useless little talents, he had the shrewdness
to perceive that insolence glazed with a thin
veneer of humour is a capital stepping-stone to
notoriety, and also that the vain and shallow-pated
may be cowed into slavery by the spur of sarcasm.
He never was a toady — his manner to the Kegent and
to Eobinson was just the same, which was unlucky
for him, seeing that one of the two could resent his
peevish petulance. His teachings, if conceited and
effeminate, were less harmful than that of the preceding
age, which gave birth to rufflers and Shocks.
He wore the bells of folly more than the brand of
vice, and was really a valuable reformer, for he
taught people of fashion to use soap and water,
compelled lords to sit in their carriages instead of
on the coachbox, taught ingenuous youth that without
thrashing old men they might be valorous. The
habits of the society he led were the most prodigal
which had obtained in England since the days of
Charles the Second, and in the matter of gambling
and show his slender purse was unable to cope with

great fortunes. He reigned in the gilded if not the
golden age, and fell.

It is a whimsical fact that hotly the hest-known
stories that have been handed down concerning him
are apocryphal — the anecdotes of "George, ring
the hell," and "Who's your fat friend?" There are
two letters existing in his hand, written from Caen,
wherein to different correspondents he repudiates
them loth. The " Being the Bell " story is on the
face of it improbable. Though the Prince of Wales
was unforgiving when regularly roused, he was too
sweet tempered to take offence at trifles. Once, when
the Court jester said something unusually impertinent,
he remarked in mild reproof, " Had we not
better ring for Mr. Brummel's carriage before he gets
too drunk ? " The real cause of the rupture was
a remark about Mrs. Fitzherbert, which was rendered
all the more exasperating from the circumstance that
the beau at the time had professed to be her friend.
But enough of this. The orb is eclipsed. The
arbiter has faded into space — has retired into limbo.
Peace be to the ashes of the fop-king. Ei. P. Exit
Brummel from our stage.

While we are peering behind the veil, and moralizing
in the corridor, an interesting scene is being
enacted in the auditorium.

When the fallen one turned from the hole in the
partition to mulct young Mr. Jones of his fifty pounds.

the Regent was applauding the Grassini — a thickset
diva with a sharp, unmelodious soprano, and so tasteless
a costume as to resemble a strolling actress
equipped at Affair. The louder she howled the
more she was applauded. The Regent vowed she
was an angel, while the King of Prussia growled that
she was a brave file. But her roulades were brought
to an abrupt termination, and she stood on the
boards shrugging her shoulders and laughing, not
knowing what to do, for all of a sudden the curtain
of an upper box directly opposite the royal one was
drawn, and Crazy Jane, with her poppies and wheat-ears,
loomed forth upon the public. The Regent caught
sight of her, and sat aghast. Was this nightmare to
haunt him for ever ? Was Banquo's figure continually
to pop up out of the floor ? She made a deep curtsy
to the Emperor of Eussia, another to the King of
Prussia, two slight ones to Blucher and Hermann
Platoffff, who stood behind. A pause. What were the
foreigners to do ? Both Regent and Premier had explained
distinctly that no notice was to be taken of
the Princess, and the visitors had given way to the
wishes of their host. But if she stood curtsying
there exactly opposite, with fashionable London looking
on, it surely behoved courteous men to acknowledge
a lady's salutation ? The Prince looked black
as thunder, and glared, as if as to say, " Royal gentlemen,
be blind !" So they gave a feeble nod, as one

might move bis neck ^Yllose stock was unreasonably
tight. But her Royal Highness was not to be beaten
thus. She moved the curtain with a rattle of rings
to draw attention, and again went through her pantomime.
This time all the royal heads were twisted in
the direction of the Grassini with desperate attention,
and the lady might have been foiled but for the zeal
of the City man who had invited the beau to Clapham.
Standing up on his seat in the pit, he shouted at the
top of his voice, while his daughters pulled him by
the legs, " Ladies and gentlemen, we are honoured
here to-night by the presence of her Royal Highness
the Princess of Wales, whom God bless ! " The effect
was electrical. More than half the house turned to
the upper box, some because they really believed in
the lady's woes, others out of mischief. Then arose a
general cry for the " National Anthem." '' God Save
the King ! " was given by a hundred throats, with
excessive applause at the lines —

Confound their politics,
Frustrate their knavish tricks ; "

and the wretched Regent, tingling all over, bowed his
acknowledgments to the public with hand on heart
and eloquent gestures in the direction of his guests.
An enthusiastic denizen of another upper box craned
round the curtain, and cried, " The compliment's for
yoiif ma'am ! " but the wily martyr sat immovable.
*' My dear!" she croaked in a loud key to Leoline,

Punch's wife is nobody when Punch is by ! " The
hint was caught up. Three cheers were called for
the Princess of Wales, while some one yelled, " Why
mayn't she go to Court ? " And some one else added
Why isn't she sitting between the foreigners ? " It
was an awful moment; the Dreadful Woman was
scoring heavily, for cheer rose above cheer as she
grinned and kissed her hand. There is no knowing
how it might have ended. She might have been borne
in triumph, and set in the place of honour between
their Majesties, when her spouse would certainly have
leapt upon the stage and fled by the singers' door ;
but that catastrophe was averted by the sudden withdrawal
of another curtain, which disclosed another
Princess, who, with tears pouring down her cheeks,
gazed on the disgrace of both her parents. Poor
Charlotte ! She had begged so hard for permission
to attend this gala, promising herself such pleasure
from the innocent amusement, and she had been
allowed to have her way on the condition of preserving
an incognita. She was sharp enough to see her
mother's intention of humbling the Regent before the
potentates, and her loyal nature burnt with resentment
at the baseness of the stratagem. For, after all,
he was the King of England in all but name, and it
was shocking to see him thus publicly degraded by
his wife in the presence of brother kings. Stung by
extreme emotion and pain, she drew the curtain, half

unconsciously, as if to implore lier mother in dumb
show, and unwittingly turned the tide.

All eyes were focussed on the sweet girl who wept,
and a murmur went the round of the assembly.
Platoffff and Blucher, who understood no English, laid
tlieii- hands upon their swords. Who was it that
dared to make lovely woman cry? Off with their
heads ! A handsome officer with a thoughtful cast of
countenance was standing behind the Russian Emperor.
An arrow went straight into the manly bosom
of Leopold of Saxe-Coburg, who had never beheld so
distracting a vision. Oh for permission to dry those
eyes — to whisper, " Tell me the cause of your trouble,
that I may slay him ! " But no clash of steel was
needed, no armed intervention of doughty knight with
sword and buckler. 'Twas the audience who were
sinning, and they repented. The pitiful appeal of
lastly flowing tears brought the assembly to a just
sense of improper conduct. Father, mother, and
child stood, as it were, together at the bar of a
tribunal ; and people (the sober ones at least) felt that
it was a case to be tried with closed doors, not before
a party of strangers. So there was a general hum of
contrition. Three more cheers for the heiress presumptive
; and then every one sat down and rubbed
their glasses, and called on the performers to proceed.

Neither the Grand Signor nor his guests cared to
remain after the unseemly exhibition of feminine

VOL. II. 28

craft and spite ; for there was no knowing but what
Crazy Jane would get up between the acts and
harangue the audience. My lord Osmington, who
could not be unaware of the growing coolness of his
master towards himself, bustled about and did his
best to create a diversion.

"Sir," he said, "Molyneux is below. Their Imperial
and Koyal Highnesses, maugre the victories of
their arms, have never beheld a display of English
fisticuffs. May I be permitted to send forthwith to
Mendoza and Ward to come with a select gathering to
my poor house, where supper shall be served?"

"A capital notion!" acquiesced the Kegent.
'* Your protege — what's his name ? — might show them
sport, — Cribbb's pupil. See to it at once."

Cy is gone to Yorkshire, sir, and Cribbb with him,
to train for the coming fight with the Pink of Bow,
the contest that has so often been postponed. But
Kendal's to the front, and others — Oliver, Painter,
Richmond. I suppose," he added, waggishly, " that
it would hardly do to introduce their Highnesses into
the Sluiceryry ? More cosy than anything this hirsute
Cossack can do at home, I warrant ? "

No, no ; Osmington House, and supper, and the
sooner the better," replied the Regent ; '' and let it be
respectable. Put some one, for the Lord's sake, to
lock that woman in her cage while we pass out, or

she'll insist on taking my arm ! Marshal Blucher,
I'm sure, would appreciate our pugilists, and Platoffff
too. Yes, a bout with gloves, and then supper. See
to it by all means."

Again there was a rush to the round-room to seethe
party go, and Grassini was left to finish to none
but the Princess. Dandies, oblivious of the presence
of their sisters and mothers, armed to their carriages
the ladies to whom they were rather married. Not
that their relations cared. On the contrary. Lady
Sarah appraised the charms of her brother's last
conquest and didn't admire his taste, though her
skin did look whiter for the black gauze dress (morning
for a defunct reputation) — and then tripped off to
her innocent dimity bed to dream of conquests of her
own. But ere she could reach it there was much to
he gone through, for link-boys were hustling and
squabbling under the arcade, coachmen swearing, footmen
elbowing, horses plunging, panels being driven
in. The confusion was greater, the lack of organization
more apparent, even than usual ; and rather
than face the turmoil the timid lingered in the round-room,
wondering why the face of Caroline, who
emerged presently, leaning upon the arm of a handsome
blue eyed youth, should be so convulsed with
passion. She had missed her coup. Charlotte, the
minx and marplot, had spoilt a promising scene by

inopportune weeping ; and when her sportive mamma
wanted to skip out to make another cheese in the
passage, the key had unaccountably got turned in the
door-lock, and it was ten minutes before she could
come forth.

CHAPTER IV.

CYRUS GOES INTO TRAINING.

The forming of grand resolves, whereby we are to
cheerfully resign our own sparse share of earthly
sweets for the benefit of another grovelling worm, is
an exhilarating occupation. The carrying out of such
resolutions in humdrum daily life is not altogether so
delightful. Butter is expensive, say. Dear Johnny
shall have our share and welcome, the darling child.
For a day or two we enjoy the dryness of our own
crust, are charmed with the difficulty of swallowing
the sharp three-cornered crumbs. In a week our
throat revolts at the sandy rhomboids. Before the
month is out we are scandalized at the horrible greediness
of Johnny.

On the tedious journey from London to Yorkshire
Miss Eowe's spirits were kept up by a contemplation
of the extremely unpleasant time she was going to
pass at Battle Magna. She knew that grandcourt
Pentecost would be enraged at her return, would
scold severely for playing a game so ill. With such

chances why did she not snap up a millionaire, a
duke, or belted earl — arrange her life so as to bean
assistance to her relations instead of an incumbrance
? Everything that could be done for a damsel
had been done. She was mistress of deportment
and elegant accomplishments, possessed trunkfuls of
purple and fine linen, but instead of baiting a hook
therewith, wilfully neglected advantages, and came
mewing back to be a fardel. Madam Smalley had
always been cross and crabbed ; now she would have
a genuine cause for ill-temper, and was likely to make-the
most of it. Aggravated and ireful, she might
even inaugurate an ancient system of cuffs and
slaps wherewith the horny-handed lady had been wont
to vex the flesh of evildoers. So much the better,
Miss Eowe said to herself. Each pinch would be a
blossom added to her chaplet. She had set herself a
task, an all-engrossing task, for the benefit of one for
whom she felt as a sister. The greater the difficulties
and pains in the way of its accomplishment the more
valuable the ultimate reward.

But she found the return to Battle Magna even
more grievous than she had expected. Years of
neglect had not improved the condition of the mansion.
After a survey of the rotting stairs, the broken windows,
the dilapidated chambers, a chilly remembrance of
the cosy rooms at Osmington House insisted on protruding
itself; the pewter teapot would sing of its

silver brother, the coarse loaf would whisper of
London sally-lungs. Madam Pentecost, too, was as
little improved as the house. Instead of scolding,
pinching, or slapping, she received her grandsire
with complete indifference ; glanced up from the great
chair by the fireside, and spreading her long fingers to
the warmth, resumed her contemplation of the embers.
Increasing age seemed to have frozen her blood
beyond the power of thawing, and yet she consumed
so much liquid fire that she should have been warm
within. Constant solitude appeared to have dried up
the faculty' of speech, for the housekeeper rarely spoke
except to ask for brandy. There was a blight on the
old woman. Under her breath, as she crouched
summer and winter before the blaze, you might detect
a mumbling complaint of being much afflicted ; and
whenever this mumbling assumed coherent form, the
small rustic who was the only servant took up the
cue and fetched the bottle of strong waters.

Abigel was astonished and strangely chilled by her
reception. AYhat was abuse, personal violence, to such
ghostly companionship as this ? The wind moaned
through the broken lattices, shook the tattered window
curtains, which, dust-grimed and cobweb-shrouded,
swung loosely on their oaken poles. Birds had brought
straw and twigs into the tapestried reception-rooms,
had built nests among the ornaments, and brought up
large families in the artificial dusk, and flown off with

them into the day. In the dining-parlour a crow had
dropped down the spacious chimney, and, sick or
wounded, had died and rotted on the hearth. The
few domestics and garden-men had gone away long
since, complaining of never being paid, and no one had
troubled to replace them. The roads were weedy, the
grass grown rank and tall; and in course of time,
as was inevitable, the place was declared to be haunted
by phantoms from the adjacent abbey. When wind
and weather obtain the mastery, a house soon falls to
ruin. The sliding of a tile leads to the displacement
of another, and so on.

Madam Smalley fell to ruin with the house. She
dwelt in one chamber in the south tower, and rarely
moved out of it; might have been taken for one
paralysed, so still was her demeanour, until now and
again the contemplation of the embers conjured something
terrible, and then she would rise and pace the
creaking floor awhile, and, vowing she was sore afflicted,
sink down again and call for a dram of fire-water.

Abigel occupied herself for a few days in constructing
a bower from the debris. Like Alexander Selkirk on
his island, she had to build a house for herself, and
enlisted the small rustic in the capacity of Friday.
She laughed at the idea of ghosts, and was amused
when the diminutive satellite declined with vehement
horror to spend night at the manor-house. Daylight
was another affair, she averred, for all the world knows

that ghosts go to bed at cock-crow. For a modest
stipend she brought the milk from the village at seven,
and remained in attendance till dusk. If Madam
Smalley chose to dance sara bands with bogey after she
was gone, that was her business. She, the round-eyed
rustic, was of opinion that Madam Smalley herself left
the house at night, whisked off for a gallop upon a
broomstick ; for if she were not tired out by secret
exercise, how could she remain motionless for so many
hours at a stretch, glued to that ancient chair ?

Pentecost did not go off on aerial excursions, Abigel
became assured of that ; for, discovering that Madam
Pentecost desired not to play the tyrant, she aired her
managing proclivities by taking possession of her
aunt and tucking her between the sheets. Lying
awake by reason of the weird noises caused by wind,
she could hear Madam Pentecost's uneasy tossing,
detect scraps of broken sentences, to which she
listened eagerly. There could be no doubt that
Madam Pentecost had something on her mind which,
with the decay of nature, became more hard to carry ;
and miserable as she could not help feeling, despite
attempts at cheerfulness, Abigel was certain that, if preparing
to take up Leo's cudgels, she had done the right
thing in returning to the protection of Mrs. Smalley.
However carefully we may guard our lips, he whose
eyes and ears are ever on the alert is pretty sure to
surprise the secret which is known to be locked within.

If there was no secret, why this constant brooding, this
starting up for fitful walks, this clamouring with
parched tongue for brandy ? Of course there was a
secret, with an accompanying trail of remorse ; and
whom could it concern, if not the fair-haired Leoline ?
Miss Eowe set herself to pump her aunt about the
past, but speedily abandoned the process ; for Madam
Smalley turned upon her with such fierceness as she
must have used long years ago to terrify that world-worn
servant. Little inclined as she was to conversation
upon any subject, the past was a sealed volume,
which was on no account to be reopened.

Certainly the life that Abigel had carved for herself
was not a cheerful one. The dry bread was grievously
hard to swallow, yet she strove to be content, and to
look without blenching at the endless vista of unbuttered
crusts. But, as time progressed, it became
less easy to do so, for the prospect of providing
luxuries for Leoline remained as remote as ever. She
made efforts to recall her own dead mother's gossip ;
but, heedless infant, what had she cared then for
stories of defunct Islington ? Tales of Master
Horner and clumsy Jack and Jill were much more
entrancing to a dawning intellect. A hopeless quest
is numbing to the soul. " After all, why delve into the
matter now ? " Idleness whispered. If Leoline was
indifferent, why should she care ? Why sacrifice
herself upon the altar of a young man's future, who

was really nothing to lier ? Had she not, for good
and all, separated herself from the butterflies of the
Court and their sinful doings ? Thanks to her
eloquence, he was provided for after a fashion — there
was deep) satisfaction in that — and it behoved her, asa
chaste maiden, to think of him no more. But the
mere suggestion plunged daggers into the breast of
Abigel. What ! endure this dreary existence without
an object ? A thousand times, no. Madness
would supervene, unless she applied her mind to
puzzle something out. As a sister she was interested
in Leoline, partly perhaps on account of the romance
that hung about his story. She was Fate's handmaid
a tool in the grasp of Destiny. Who was she to
resist the unseen power and lie down a prey to sloth ?
Sure a task should be the more absorbing in the
increasing ratio of its difficulty. And yet it was
hard to be expected to make bricks without straw.
Have we not all been sorry for the classical young
ladies who were condemned to pour water through a
sieve ?

In the first place, as a first step gn the road to
discovery, it was essential to learn more about the
family now in possession. All kinds of clues might
be discovered by grubbing among the family papers.
Old stories might yet live in the village, be disinterred
from the graves of memory. Miss Eowe took to
visiting the almshouse, whose inmates pronounced

her a lovely creature. " Was it her fault," mumbled
Betty Higgs, *'if grandcourt was a witch?" The
Stratton almshouse consisted of a series of cells
opening on a central hall which was used as a
common sitting-room; and the tide gates of reminiscence
being opened, unending was the flow of
gabble. Of course many of the hags had known
grandcourt when a girl, before she became a witch,
and were conversant with details of her history of
which Pentecost herself had never heard. Amazing
tales were related by the harridans, who had always
detested Madam Smalley for despising them as dirt.
Who was she, thes wished to know, to be contemptuous
? They were honest folk, if widows of labourers ;
dragons of aggressive virtue. It wasn't their place
to judge their betters — no indeed, — and if lords took
fancies to waiting women, who should gainsay their
fancy ? When Lady Olivia died, sweet soul, Madam
Smalley was very fine ; she took things with a high
hand. 'Twas whispered, indeed, that the Lady Olivia
was dreadful twitter, nervous, and sensitive and
such-like, and had died of Madam Smalley.

*how could that be, since 'twas known she died in
childbed of the present lord ? " snapped one.

"Ah well! never mind!" returned another, with
blinks of portentous moment. She knew what she
knew, and if other people hadn't eyes in their heads,
worse luck for being moles.

Abigel had much difficulty in sifting grain from cliff.
She took long stalks in the high woods, sat dreaming
in the many temples, looking down on the neglected
pleasance where the reflections of the statues in the
ponds were broken by leaping fish. It seemed that
grandcourt Pentecost was more closely connected with
the Osmmgtons' interest than she supposed. Hence
her loyalty in keeping the secret, whatever it might
be ; hence the chronic state of lockjaw which she
chose to endure till death, for the sake of the family
she idolized. The tapestried reception-room had
been splendidly furnished by the Lady Selina when,
the fugitive having been declared to have died childless,
she inherited the Northallerton estates. Her
husband, Lord Holies of the Vine (who, it will be
remembered, in consequence of accession of wealth
was created first Lord Osmington), had an elegant
taste in furniture, and spent some of his wife's money
in Italian cassocks, casasedias, cabinets ; in sculptured
halts bearing the mark of Diana of Poictiers, the
cj])h.ev of Ninon de I'Enclos. Beautiful as were
these objects, they were also strong, capable of
resisting the encroachments of wind and weather —
standing monuments of excellent workmanship, which
would have fallen under the hammer twenty years ago
if Vere, the present lord, had had the smallest notion
of their value. As we know, he never came to Battle
Magna if he could help it, for even his seared eon-science

was pricked by the sight of the reproachful
stumps of the grand trees that had fallen by his order.
Besides, the prevailing mode was in favour of spindle-shanked
chairs and tables, gaunt cupboards like coffins
on stilts ; and Ildefonza and Pepita preferred goods
that could be carried in the pocket to collections
of old-fashioned and cumbrous furniture. The gipsy
element in the nature of Miss Eowe had been much
tempered by her education. Instead of tearing off into
the fields, squatting under the hedges as the acme of
supreme delight, she could take interest now in the
details of the old manor-house, dream over its historic
associations, repeople its balconies and terraces with
sweeping belles in hoop or farthingale. It hurt her to
mark the condition of the saloons, the neglected state of
the cabinets and cupboards. She rubbed them tenderly
with a cloth, wondered what they might contain.
I am afraid, indeed, that she did her best to force the
doors, but without avail. The keys were hanging in
my lord's room at Osmington House ; she remembered
looking curiously at them ; and the exquisite cabinetmaking
of the period was capable of stout resistance.
Not one of them would yield to persuasive touches ;
but in a box, known as Lady Olivia's chest, she found
a little book which turned out to be a diary. The
Lady Olivia's diary ! Here was a treasure ! With
palpitating bosom Abigel seized a hat and rushed off
to her favourite temple, overlooking the pleasance.

The writing was crabbed, and the paper damp, the ink
faded. After poring over its contents till her eyes
swam, she laid doAvn the book with a sigh, and
meditated on the all-absorbing topic.

By fitting two and two together, something was
gained. That was a comfort. Something not vitally
important to Leoline, perhaps ; yet was it encouraging,
and not devoid of value. She knew now, or thought
she knew, that grandcourt Pentecost, born on the
estate where she was to live and die, had entered the
service of the Lady Selina as a child-maid or species
of favourite ; that she was ten years old or thereabouts
when Lord Archibald's brother vanished in
1745. She gathered that this maid, six or seven years
his senior, had been companion-romp and playmate
to Lady Selina's son, George, the second lord, w4io
married Olivia Staples ; that she was more friend
than servant ; that at the death of Olivia she had
ruled the household as housekeeper, and had been
suspected of occupying a tenderer place under the
roof of this second lord; that, at any rate, she had
been party to his acts, faithfully occupying the post of
second mother to Vere, the present scapegrace. Abigel
could learn nothing of the vanished brother except
that Archibald disliked him, was indifferent to his
disappearance ; that a veil was cast over his fate.
"V\Tien spoken of, it was as James Christopher Jervois,
of Broagh in Ireland, as though he were master of

Irish estates — squire, head of an illustrious Irish
branch, instead of being an outlaw deserted by his
family, an outcast who ate the bread of strangers asa
humble factor and dependent. She gathered — and
this cast a new glimmer over the darkness — that
Olivia Stales, second Lady Osmington, was always
haunted by a notion that the fugitive had not predeceased
his son ; that the boy he was known to have
possessed had not succumbed in infancy to smallpox.
She was for ever harping on the subject in her journal,
stating that she had made such researches as her
husband's opposition would permit, and that before
she died in her confinement (as she felt a presentiment
she would), a promise should be wrung from my lord
that he would set afoot serious inquiries. She wrote
of a memorial tablet whereon certain facts were
graven, and was even cognizant of the name of the
son ; but — oh, how provoking was this ! — she spoke of
the monument as of something familiar to all, and
the one place where the son's name was mentioned
in the diary was blurred and spotted by the damp !
What monument ? whose monument ? There was
nothing of the kind in Kipon Minster or Stratton
village church. And yet, where else could a monument
have been placed ? and to whom could it have
been erected ? Shadowy as was the information
garnered, it struck Abigel's mind with a firm conviction,
unalterable henceforth, that something had

been carefully concealed, destroyed perhaps, by George,
the second lord (probably with the assistance of his
mistress, Pentecost), whereby the estates were secured
to his own son to the detriment of the offspring of
James Christopher of Broagh. If the boy had really
succumbed to smallpox, why take the trouble to conceal
or destroy whatever it was that had been destroyed
or concealed ? And Pentecost's behaviour — was it
caused by remorse for the doing of something that
might not be undone, or were her good and evil angels
battling over her soul, striving to settle by force of
arms whether she should confess or not ? If only
there were some means of making her speak ! if there
was only some trap into which she might be decoyed,
to force open those tight-set lips ! And yet, as things
were, her participation in any fraudulent action was
mere hypothesis ; that anything fraudulent had been
perpetrated at all was pure surmise, based on the
easiest premises. Abigel racked her brain. If anything
shady had been done, did Vere, the present lord,
know aught of it ? Certainly. Hence his treatment
of Leoline, whom he had deliberately placed in such
a position as would deprive him of education, and prevent
him from making moneyed friends who might
assist in pushing his claim. A clumsy, unskilled blacksmith
could not even earn his living, much less lay by
a store. It was very clever to have apprenticed the
child to a calling in which he would never excel ; and
VOL. n. 29

what a marvellous thing it was that he should
have been miraculously rescued from his taskmaster
through the instrumentality of a humble girl !

The finger of Heaven seemed visible in this, and yet
how inscrutable its decrees ! Nothing had come of
Leo's emancipation from servitude. Was it reserved
for the girl who had moved the stone to roll it to the
hill-top alone, with unaided, puny strength ? It appeared
so. Abigel felt a thrill of joy in the conviction
that her oddly ordered life was not to be a useless one.
In the hot enthusiasm of a first success she blessed
the unbuttered bread and swallowed the hard pellets
with delight. In the box containing Olivia's dusty
papers might there lurk something of real importance ?
That was hardly to be hoped, for, as she knew, the
chest had lain in the library for years unlocked, for
inquisitive rats to pry into. But Vere was so very
careless. When the Princess of Wales carried off the
'prentice he had made no effort to reclaim him ; had
contented himself with storming at the blacksmith,
Kimpton — a whirlwind of empty wrath, forgotten as
soon as over. What did this show ? That the thing,
Whatever it was, had been destroyed, not concealed,
and that he felt himself to be secure. Why then
have concerned himself about the lad at all ? Why
idly grind his teeth and glare, as he had often done
in London, to Miss Eowe's amusement ? Perhaps he
hated him, knowing that he had been wronged ; but

feared him not, knowing himself to be safe. That
must be the solution of the enigma, Abigel concluded
With a sigh. The words of mammy on her deathbed
in the barn were fraught with prophetic truth.
Before God you are the earl, before man you'll
never be ! " Alas, alas ! was the case hopeless ?
Surely not. At any rate, the goal was worth trying
for, and Miss Kowe, who but for this would have been
utterly devoid of occupation, resolved not to be discouraged
till every stone had been turned. There was
plenty of time, too much time. She promised herself
some of these days to examine Lady Olivia's box in
detail, meanwhile it would be well to study the diary
with care. Have not wise men dragged whole histories,
by dint of perseverance, out of scraps of ragged
papyrus ? This diary should be submitted to minute
scrutiny. It was just like the envious damp to have
obliterated important paragraphs !

A ray of sunshine fell on monotonous existence
at Battle Magna : Cyrus came down — dear stalwart,
kindly cousin Cyrus ; and Abigel's heart told her, as
she surveyed his honest face and well-knit proportions,
that she was very glad to see him. Since the
veneer of fine-lady's had been sponged away, she
felt somehow much nearer to cousin Cyrus than when
gi-anxiously permitting his escort to or from a rout,
and was surprised to find how welcome his presence
was. Of course she was vowed to perpetual maiden-hoed,

and must see that he dropped no more such
hints as in London had roused her laughter. But
that was no reason why she should not be delighted
to see her cousin. The heartiness of her greeting
flooded his soul with light.

Abby, my bird," he cried, as he clasped her in
his arms, *' you are really pleased that I am come ?'
Bless thee for that, my pet. Give a friendly hand
then, to my master."

Cyrus was not so respectful as he was wont to be.
She had abandoned high life, had descended again to
his level ; and he fell, quite naturally, into the old
groove. His speech recalled the damsel to a sense of
decorum, and awakened at the same time a girlish
spirit of coquetry. She was not going to allow Mr.
Smalley to take possession of her in this free and
easy way. What assurance ! He must be put down,
or who might tell what he would venture next ? No ;
she refused point-blank to give a friendly hand to his
master. By the side of Cyrus was the thickset, burly
figure of Mr. Thomas Cribbb, who grinned like a beneficent
grampus, and protruded a gigantic manley.
For the moment Abigel had forgotten Cy's profession,
but the presence of the Champion of England recalled
it to her displeased remembrance.

Mr. Cribbb was pleasant enough to look at, although
the young lady chose to fro^vn on him — very smart,
as fresh as a large daisy, clad in a light-hued cut-away

which set off to advantage the proportions of his
sixteen stone. From a spotless calimanco vest
depended a thick gold chain, with half a dozen seals
that chinked and swung over his buckskin breeches.
His white hat was broad-brimmed, with a bell crown
and blue band, and he wore it jauntily, the least little
bit aslant, in respectful imitation of the disgraced
censor. A fine-looking man the Champion of England,
as many a buxom matron thought as she sighed
to change her name.

But Miss Abby was not to be captivated by such
homely allurements as the Champion was able to hold
out. She returned his grins with sniffs, and observed
sharply —

AVhat are you here for? To teach the chaw-bacon
to black each other's eyes ? There are dozens
of boxers all over Yorkshire who've already learned
the accomplishment, and might haply even overthrow
your worship."

"No fear, miss," laughed the Champion. "We
ain't afraid of 'em; though we've neither time nor
inclination to tackle 'em at present ; not but what I
Bnd Cyrus may come a tour some day and show 'em
what we're made of. But he's got his spurs to win
first, and we've come down to train. That set-to on
yom account, miss, settled that it was to be ; but
circumstances postponed the day. The Sprig and
the Pink are to have it out, once and for all ; there's

been too many idle cat-scratching between 'em. So
we're here on the quiet just for a month or two, by
my lord's wish, and shall be truly grateful for ladies*
society in the intervals of attention to business."

This was very neat on the part of Mr. Cribbb, and
he accentuated the gallantry of allowing' pleasure to
combine with business by spreading one manley on
his waistcoat and kissing the fingers of the other.
Although Champion of England, Mr. Cribbb was a
mortal. He liked pretty girls when they were not in
the way, and could indulge in elephantine flirtations
when not himself in training. When he beheld the
state of the manor-house he gave a low whistle ; and
when the untimely chatelaine thereof was presented
to his view, he took up bag and baggage and departed
promptly for the village inn, bidding his pupil follow
Presently to enter on his stern regime.

That affair on the pavement outside Wattier's, as
Cribbb explained, settled the question as to the necessity
of another serious set-to between the young rivals.
Mendoza, when he heard of it and of how badly the
Sprig had held his own, went about loudly declaring,
that the Pugilistic Club ought to take up the matter,
and investigate the questionable details of that earlier
fight, asserting that he had got a little the best of it
on that occasion by accident alone. This, of course,,
roused Cribbb in defence of the Bristol style, and the
honour of himself and pupils. A meeting of the

Fancy was called at the Fives-court. Caleb Bank
formally challenged Smalley to fight him within three
months, whereupon Cyrus threw up his hat in token
that he accepted the challenge. But circumstances
rendered it necessary to postpone the encounter. Lord
Osmington was patron of both the rivals, and declared
it impossible to make up his mind as to where
and how it should take place, and the Corinthians
grumbled sorely at his lordship's unaccustomed lukewarmness.
Eventually, however, it was decided that
the pair should meet in September of the current
sear, and to that end my lord sent Ann and Mendoza
down to Brighton, and Smallest and his master
to the rural retirement of York. Cribbb was resolved
that there should be no doubt this time as to which
was the better man, and set himself to correct the
enervating effects of London dissipation. '^ You
shall be a picture' when you strip, or my name ain't
Tom," quoth the worthy Champion; and grievous were
the trials that Cy had to undergo for the attainment
of the desired object. He drank warm porter, ate
half-raw beefsteaks, took immense walks, was to be
seen striding all over the country at all hours.

Li intervals of endeavouring to decipher the Lady
Oh\da's hieroglyphics, Abigel still haunted the village
almshouse, conversed with all and sundry who could
possibly know anything that might prove useful ; and
passing the inn daily, found herself little by little

quite interested in her cousin's training. The simple
enthusiasm of the bm^ly Champion, his affection for
his favourite pupil, won her by degrees, and she was
fain to confess that his manners were quite genteel
in spite of his ruffianly profession. At first Cribbb
was deeply wounded at the aspersions she flung
broadcast at the art, but he nodded his bullet head
knowingly as week followed week and the maiden's
interest increased. She would trip down of a morning
to witness the sparring ; make critical remarks as to
Cy's attitude, and applaud the agility displayed by
her cousin in parrying his master's hits. Then when
they sat down to rest, she would sit down too, and
prattle gaily, even penetrate sometimes into the
kitchen like a sunbeam, and making her way among
the festoons of onions and rows of hams that hung
from the low ceiling, prepare with her own little
hands the sanguinary allowance of meat. "Now,
Peefofum," she would cry, " oh, you horrid monster !
Here's your raw flesh, giant. You'll want live babies
next." Such lively communing was cheering to the
men, and served as well to make the lady's unbuttered
bread more palatable than when she first
arrived. Not that she neglected her guest; but she
felt that what she sought could not be gained at once,
that time was her best auxiliary, that clues might drop
within her reach one by one if she was vigilant and
patient, and that it was well to make the most of her

cousin's society so long as he remained. When, of
old, the knights put on their armour and went forth
to practise for the jousts, their sisters, cousins,
maiden aunts, doubtless went too, to watch their
prowess and make sly bets of gloves upon the coming
tom-lament. The Queen of Beauty, I dare say, who
in full fig, ablaze with diamonds, was later on to give
the prize, sat there with a book, in an old cloak,
dotting down two to one on Sir Bevis, discussing the
odds with maids of honour. Had there been any one
to bet with. Miss Kowe would have been taken with
the mania, for she waxed exceedingly learned, and
could prate sagely of the noble art.

In the afternoon or quiet evening, Cyrus would
repay the visit which she had made in the morning,
would stroll up to the manor-house, look at his croaking
grandmother, wander under the tall trees with
pretty Abigel. Of these meetings Mr. Cribbb did not
approve. This was not the moment for cooing. It
behoved not a man to be sentimental whose energies
should be entirely occupied by the study of the
craftiest means in smashing another's nose. Mr.
Cribbb saw with apprehension that his favourite pupil
was desperately in love ; that he sighed over his tepid
porter, looked with distaste upon his steak unless she
had come down to cook it. In London, Cyrus had
Ijeen timid and awkward in Miss Piowe's company,
though entu-ely unabashed by the presence of Princess

Charlotte. His flame had smouldered. But now that
the breach seemed filled ; now that, waiving objections
to the art, she could be so kind and cheery, it shot
up again with renewed vigour, and burned more
fiercely than of yore. When the trio sat in the inn
garden, and he marked how the girl's antipathy tO'
the Champion had given place to friendliness, he grew
full of hope, and wove for himself and her the
brightest future. Everything was going as smoothly
as he could wish. The shadow of the odious Leoline
no longer hovered ; he was forgotten. The sky was
cloudless ; Cy would go up to town and pummel
Caleb ; then return and claim the plump brown hand
of darling Abigel as guerdon of victory. So dreamed
artless Cy, and he poured forth his aspirations and
intentions into the capacious bosom of the Champion.
But the latter was not satisfied. " The pretty lady is
miles above your pate, my poor boy," he said, " in
thought and feeling, although she has laid aside fine
clothes. Breach filled up, forsooth ! Education has
dug a pit that you can never fill up, unless you go to
school again. We've each our allotted place in the
world, and must do our best in it contentedly, without
crying for the moon. Some folks work with their
brains, others with their males ; and it becomes
not the one to ape the ways of the other. My lord
Wellington is a great fighter, can upset Bony and
all his hosts, which neither you nor I could do ; but

I reckon that on the turf of Moulsey Hurst he'd cut
a Sony figure ! He wouldn't strip like a picture' ! "
And the thought of what the doughty general would
look like, deprived of garments to the waist, tickled
the Champion so intensely, that he laughed till the
casements rattled. " No, no ! " pursued Mr. Cribbb.
If you're the prudent lad I take you for, you'll
drop it. Don't burn your wings for nothing. If you
choose, you've a grand career before you. I'm a bit
short in the wind, and can't hold the belt for ever.
"When my time comes to retire and pass it on, I'd like
that you should wear it. You'll gallop the Pink of
Bow without much trouble, unless I'm much mistaken;
but young Sandal's devilish promising. You're just
of an age, and equal in weight. To see you two
come forward a few years hence for the Championship
would do my eyes good ; and if so be as I could hand
the insignia of my dignity to my favourite, the belt
and I would part without regret. What have you got
to give the lady? A tough good-looking headpiece
with nothing in it, and a splendid figure. You've got
to stick to the ring to earn your living. What she's
seen is only child's play — the pretty part of the business
; but I doubt she'd shrink before the other part.
Men of our calling must get knocked about sometimes,
and we don't mind that ; but she would, I take
it. If she accepted you, it would be because you're
good-looking — not having, as I say, much inside

to speak of. And if you came home some day all of
a pulp after a bad beating — wouldn't love fly out of
the window at sight of your bruised face ? The fear
of it would unman you, make you shirk. Look further
still. When our work's done we put together our
savings, and end our lives behind a bar, fighting battles
again over a pipe with pals. It's the way of bur profession.
Would she like that, do you think ? Put her
down, say, when on the shady side of the hill, at the
Salutation Tavern, or as mistress of the Lion in the
Borough market, to draw ale for the Corinthians. No,
no ; take the advice of your second father, and give
it up, my lad ! If I'd 'a dreamed of this I'd have got
my lord to send us to Brighton, and the others here.
Being here, we've got to stop till ye're up to the mark,
and I wish that was tomorrow."

After this unusually lengthy harangue, Mr. Cribbb
shook the ashes from his pipe and went despondingly
to bed, for he was troubled with a presentiment that
things were going wrong, beyond the power of being
set right by his limited mental capacity. As he
undressed he wondered whether he ought to write to
my lord ; whether he had done wrong in interfering
.at all. Would it not have been better to have encouraged
the love-sick swain, to have cunningly egged
him on to a proposal, that the fever might be sooner
checked ? For, of course, the lady would decline the
intended honour ; and yet — would she ? Miss Eowe

was amazingly benign all of a sudden. Why was
this •? Was she secretly sorry for the step she had
taken ? Would she perchance jump at marrying her
cousin, in order that he might pluck her from out the
ruined manor-house, remove her from the awful
companionship of that muttering, scowling witch ?
No ; not so long as he was a i)ugihst. She deigned
to discuss the art as an amateur, but loathed it in
her heart. The weighing of pros and cons was not in
Mr. Cribbb's Ime, so he tm-ned over with a grunt and
went to sleep, leaving events to sort themselves
without further meddling from him.

Cyrus listened as became a respectful pupil, but
was no more convinced than lovers usually are.
Since Leoline was forgotten, and the throne of fashion
abdicated, why should not Abigel smile upon his
suit ? He knew she liked him very much. Though
she did not complain, her position with Pentecost and
the bats and rats and black beetles must be untenable.
How she could kill the days at all was a marvel to
Cy. Her haughtiness had gotten her into a hobble,
regret for which was masked by pride, but it must exist
for all that. The same idea struck both master and
pupil. Cy felt sure that his cousin's repentance for
what she had done had caused her to warm towards
him, and that, much as she was his superior, she
would take him as a pis-aller. The poor fellow was
so conscious of inferiority that he objected in no wise

-to being a pis-aller, provided that his point was gained.
What had he to give ? " Cribbb had asked. A true
and honest heart, a deep-rooted affection. Were such
offerings worth nothing? Abigel was his first and
only love. Since childhood he had never swerved in
loyalty to her, since the days when he had risked his
neck to bring her birds' eggs. Love, pure and entire
and unalloyed, is surely an offering that may not be
despised. He knew now that there was no sacrifice
he was not disposed to make for Abigel provided he
would call her his. Give her up ! Never. Cribbb was
an old fool to chatter as he had done. What did he
know of such matters ? His tongue was gagged now,
for his nose-trumpeting sounded from above. That
was a comfort. Too deeply moved for slumber, Cyrus
strolled forth into the summer night to seek for calm ;
stared at the stars — surveyed the woods of Battle
Magna park, cut out in silhouette against the blue.
Abigel was asleep by this time, dreaming, perchance
of him, cooking beef steaks in fancy. He ought also
to go to roost, since he must be up at dawn for a
matutinal stretch. Yet what was the use of lying
down only to kick and toss ? In plunging there is no
rest. Better to enjoy the summer night. He would
take a stroll just to steady his nerves and quell the
turmoil within. What direction better than that
which led to the manor-house ? The turf was
soothing to the feet. It was amusing to watch the

startled deer as they sprang up and melted among
the trees. It would please Miss Eowe to be told on
the morrow that he had kept vigil at midnight by her
window. It would prepare her gracefully for the offer
of his heart and hunch of fives, which could not be
withheld much longer. She was a saucy bit of mischief.
No doubt of that. ALL the more charming perhaps.
Only the other day, when he had breathed hard and
snorted and rolled his eyes, permitting his passion to
find vent in the usual idiotic manner, she had twitted
him with it. "I believe you are trying to make love,
Cy ! " she had said merrily. " What fun ! Love,
they say, is the mainspring of a woman's life, soit's
right and proper you should help me to a scrap
of it. Pity it isn't genuine." Then she too had
snorted in jocund mimicry, and puffed and rolled her
eyes. Oh yes, a saucy coquette, more precious than
all Golconda.

How grim the hoary facade appeared, bathed in
pearly moonlight, the window-panes shining like opals !
Even Cy, who was far from poetical, was moved to
admiration by the grotesque shadows cast upon the
rugged front by the stone griffins and crumbling fretwork.
Strange honour, he thought, for so tattered
and torn a casket to hold so rare a jewel. Bathed in
moonlit sleep, how intense the universal stillness !
The beating of a bat's pinion was clearly audible.
What was that ? Cy was so taken by surprise, that

he held his breath. A Hight— at this hour in the
ruined mansion ! A burglary in this idylHc retreat I
Who could be ferreting among the lumber, and for
what ? Was there anything worth stealing ? Surely
not. Grandmother Pentecost had lived here long
enough alone, and none had disturbed her rest. Abigel !
At the thought that the saucy daring might be in
peril, Cy's sturdy heart stood still ; he felt faint, and
leaned for a second against the wall. It was an
errant light which, appearing first above, had moved
downward and glimmered through the chinks of the
bulging shutters of the library on the ground floor.
Perhaps it was a ghost ! Cy had, of course, become
familiar with village gossip ; had been told that
grandam was a witch. Perhaps the light heralded a
sabbat. It was possible that the stalwart pugilist
would have run away had he not been riveted to the
terrace flags by dread for Abigel. For her dear 
would do doughty deeds — even face witches.
Perchance 'twas a vulgar human marauder. If it
were, his bones should pay for daring to disturb the
nut-brown maid's repose. Cyrus crossed the terrace
and peered between the shutter chinks. Another
shock awaited him. It was not grandam Pentecost
upon a broomstick, or a hulking thief, who was
moving in the library. Abigel herself, in a white
dressing gown, with a taper in one hand and a book
in the other, glided through the door and looked

about. Placing the taper on the table, she turned a
page in the book, and, reflecting for a moment, tossed
it beside the candlestick. Then she passed her fingers
through her short crisp cm-Is, and, moving towards
a huge ebony cabinet that occupied a half of the end
wall, turned up her sleeves, and felt the lock and
hinges.

"What on earth can the sweet soul be after?"
marvelled her cousin. She swept her frail hands over
the fastenings, and her cherries twisted into a
smile that showed a pair of ravishing dimples. " She
may well smile," muttered Cyrus, "if she thought
that she could force those hinges."

The smile gave place to a frown. Miss Eowe produced
a flat upon ferule, and began working it between
the hinges. Burglarious damsel ! What trick could
she be up to now ? Walking in her sleep ? No. The
abrupt fretfulness of disappointment showed that she
was wide awake.

N'importe / '' she said aloud. "Cyrus shall open
it tomorrow."

"Will he?" grinned that worthy. "No, he will
not." The ebony cabinet belonged to my lord
Osmington, and Mr. Smalley, not being a woman,
had no notion of prjdng into other people's cupboards.


The young lady gave the cabinet an angry tap,
consulted the book again, and sitting down by the

VOL. II. 30

box which Cyrus had known, time out of mind, as
Lady Olivia's chest, opened it and flung out its contents
upon the floor.

The honest fellow was transfixed with amazement.
So darling Abby was a true daughter of Eve ! An
unscrupulous daughter; for unless she was aware
that to peep into other people's papers is naughty,
why did she not reserve for daylight these investigations
? She could do what she chose without much
chance of interference on the part of the housekeeper.
True, there was a small rustic — a pitcher with long
ears — and Abigel possibly did not care to be caught
prying, even by that insignificant individual. What
was she about now ? Her proceedings bore a disagreeable
resemblance to larceny ; for Miss Kowe, at
sight of a dirty bit of paper, had pounced on it and
concealed it in her bosom.

Cyrus knocked at the window; and starting up
with a low cry, his cousin retreated into a corner, like
an animal at bay.

It is I," whispered the pugilist. " Let me in."
Miss Kowe advanced at once, and undid the rusty
bolts. " What are you doing here at this hour ? Has
anything happened?" she inquired calmly.

"What are yon doing?" echoed Cyrus. '*No
good, I doubt. What right have your hands in Lady
Olivia's chest ? "

Abigel reddened with anger, and her eyes flashed.

^' So you've been spying!" she cried, with scorn;
*' and I thought a boxer might be a gentleman."
"I hoped my cousin was no thief! " retorted bhnit

€}TUS.

*' You — you — base rascal ! " blurted out Miss Eowe,
her eyes glowing like coals. 'how like a big bully
to insult a girl ! Raw flesh is good for ogres, Monsieur*
Blunderbore, but don't ask me to prepare it for you
any more. I hope you'll succeed in pounding your
brother savage ! "

Having said something that is calculated to wound,
it is wise to make a dignified retreat ; and Miss Eowe,
whisking round, prepared to stalk from the room.

Oh, amantiam irsel He who had come hither
breathing love and unalterable affection had called
the sacred object a thief! No wonder she was indignant.
Cribbb was right when he remarked that his
pupil was unfit for this angel. But angels do not
ferret in other people's boxes in the dead of night.

'stay, Abigel, my darling!" Cyrus stammered.
"' I am clumsy, but mean well, and don't want you todo
anything mean. You said aloud just now that I
should break open that cabinet. W\.\j would you
have me burst it? Doubtless you've a good reason."

Abigel was still angry, and stood pouting.

"You won't answer? Go then to bed, but first
replace that paper that you took. It is my lord's,
you know."

"It is," returned the girl, firmly, "my lord Northallerton's.
His mother's marriage certificate that
he brought with him, I take it because he will desk
to have it back."

Triumphant Abigel flourished the document under
Mr. Smalley's nose, but he suffered so acute a thrill
of pain that he could not read it. Leoline again I
Baleful shade 'twixt Cy and happiness. Ever present
in her thoughts, when her cousin hoped he was
forgotten. How she did interest herself for Leoline —
even to depriving herself of natural rest, and smirching
herself with cobwebs ! And how pleased she
seemed to be at having reclaimed the paper ! — was
pining, of course, for a word of thanks from the jackanapes.
How right was Cribbb ! The delusive sparkling
vision must be looked upon no more. Yet no ; it never
should be said that he succumbed tamely. Fiery
wrath against Leoline surged up into the mind of
the pugilist. As the flame of love had burst out with
renewed force and brightness since he had seen more
of his cousin, so was the feeling of dislike for one
who stood between himself and her intensified into
devouring hate. Abigel, who seemed his own five
minutes since, was slipping from him into the arms
of Leoline, and that jDrig was too conceited to estimate
the value of the treasure. It was more than could be
borne with equanimity. Cyrus tried to speak, but
his voice was broken by hoarse sobs.

A strong man broken down by grief is always, to a
woman, a piteous spectacle, but not a displeasing
one when she knows that his iron frame is racked by
her coquettishness. Miss Kowe approached her cousin,
who had sunk down upon a chair, and patted his
head.

What a silly boy to quarrel," she cooed — '' a
silly cross Blunderbore ! I don't want anything, sir,
that belongs to Lord Osmington. I would not touch
him or his with a pole. Pah ! There are things here
that belong by right to Leoline, and for him, like a
fond devoted sister, I want to find them. Can't you
understand, big booby, without torturing yourself for
nothing? If you wish to please me, you Avill help.
See this diary — difficult to make out, isn't it ? Lady
Olivia says that in a black cabinet she has placed a
letter from the wretched man who fought the duel, to
his brother Archibald. So much is legible. If
Leoline is the heir, and something assures me that
he is, that letter may be of greatest import. There
stands a black cabinet, and I have promised myself
that as I am only a weak girl, good kind Cy will help)
me to the letter, just to please me. Am I wrong ? "

She was wheedling like a siren. Cy felt the spell,
and considered whether he should obey her will and
win her gratitude. If the odious page was really the
heir, it was right that he should prove his title if he
could. And yet it was base to poke about in his

patron's house, behind his back, for proofs against
my lord. The point was too knotty to be easily decided.
So, taking Abigel's hand and kissing it, Cy
looked wistfully in her face as a dog might, and said —

Don't lead me wrong. You are cleverer than I !
Give me time to think."

"By all means," cried blithe Abigel, supposing
that she had won him over. *' Did I not say you
should open the cupboard tomorrow, Mr. Eavesdropper
? It sis tomorrow now, but I will give you
grace. If you bring up a chisel when you come in
the afternoon, I dare say I may give you a kiss. Just
think of that ! Promise me."

The saucy maiden's hair was mingling with his ;
her lips almost touched his ear. It was distracting
to be so tempted.

Go now — to bed," he said, quivering ; " and I'll
think of it."

Abigel gave his head another caressing pat, and
went — or rather, floated. It would be a great thing to
win Cy as an accomplice. Dear, stupid, and obedient
Cy ! It was amusing to islay upon him as on a harpsichord,
and produce tokens of pleasure or pain upon
his comely face at will. It would be extra delightful
if, with him to assist, she could explore the mazy
labyrinth.

The puzzled pugilist was entirely at sea. He would
like to please Abigel, of course. When you swear you

are ready for any sacrifice, and sly at the first
obstacle, the object of your flame has a right to be
scornful. In earlier years, when dwelling here, he
had heard ad nauseam of the Northallerton peerage
and the fugitive, but took no interest in the matter,
because he was never prone to mix in others' business,
and disliked the delicate lad at whom folks pointed.
What was he to do now ? Should he obey Abigel's-
behests, and break open the cabinet, or wash his hands
of the affair ? Prudence whispered the latter course ;
and yet he would so like to win the gratitude of his
beloved. Perhaps there was nothing in the cabinet
at all. In that case no harm could accrue by opening
it, and it did seem foolish to face her wrath if there
was nothing to be lost by obedience. Distressful contemplation
of two horns of a dilemma brightened the
young man's wits. "What if he opened that cabinet
now and made sure there was nothing within? Then
he could close it again, and go through the form of
repeating the operation to satisfy the maiden's mind.
Yes ; that was it. Cyrus sprang up and seized the
ferula. Under his strong fingers the lock yielded at
once. A quantity of bottles — medicine phials. In a
top drawer a letter. Yes ! The girl was right ; here
was a letter. Should he read it, bm-n it, put it back ?
As it was open, the young man chose the first alternative.


There were two papers, yellow with age, one within

the other. The one from Archibald, last Lord Northallerton,
to his sister Selina, enclosing the other,
which was writ by the fugitive. The latter of the two
was dated from Broagh, in Ireland, and complained of
his neglected and poverty-stricken state ; detailed the
menial, sordid details of his life ; and concluded by
saying, '* Tell my dear sisters that my wife hath been
delivered of a son — called Eoger, — foredoomed to servitude
and misery ; and so I remain, your wretched
brother, James Christopher Jervois." Archibald's
note was full of querulous complaint. "As if he had
not done harm enough already," wrote the earl, '* he
hath mated with some farm wench who will breed a
score, no doubt, of scullions ! " Foredoomed to servitude
and misery ! Yes, indeed, if this same wretch
called Eoger was the world worn domestic whom
grandam had sent packing ! What was to be done
with these letters ? Abigel had declared herself satisfied
that Leoline was the true Lord Northallerton,
and that documents concerning the Jervois family
were his by right. How like impulsive Abigel, to
jump at such a conclusion ! She was wrong in that.
The wish being father to the thought, Cyrus felt sure
that she Alas wrong. He had no desire to assist Leoline
to mount the pedestal. Far from it, at the present
moment he felt more in a mood to pull him down.
But he was too honest to stand in the youth's way
out of private jealousy. It was clear to him that till

she had better reasons for supposing Leo the heir she
had no business to give him stolen papers. Certainly
not. Till it could be sho^yn that his claims had a
basis of reality, all papers referring to the subject,
and found in his cupboard, were the property of Lord
Osmington, and must not be allowed to pass into
other hands. But how to face the ire of Abigel, if her
devoted slave proved restive ? The cupboard, closed
again, showed signs of having been forced. The
tongue of the lock was bent. She would know that in
her absence Cy had ferreted upon his own account,
and that instead of an ally he was a traitor. Horrid
thought ! Why not let her find the papers ? No ; he
would act as honesty dictated. These papers belonged
to my lord, and to no one else, as matters
stood. This very day he would start for town, seek out
his patron, give him the documents, and warn him,
as in honour bound, that the girl to whom he had
been kind was plotting his overthrow.

I am afraid Mr. Smalley made use of bad language
as he buttoned his coat over the letters and strode
back to the inn. When he started thence he was all
sighs and poesy ; when he returned the green-eyed
monster had clutched his soul, that fiend that makes
devils out of angels. He chose to think the worst of
Abigel as a schemer, because he feared that she liked
another better than himself. He was in the mad
mood that fires honourable men to slay their sweethearts,

and then commit suicide; for the idea had
entered his heart that she was anxious for her own
sake, as well as Leo's, to make good the peerage claim.
*' The darling will not he mine — she shall not he
another's either." This is the mood in which we feel
a fierce joy in flinging dirt at those whom we love
hest — in accusing them wrongfully. As may he supposed,
the ordinarily tranquil stream of poor Cy's
mind did not become thus turbid without lashings of
interest anguish. When he stood over the bed of
Mr. Cribbb, and awoke that gentleman, he looked
haggard and wild. His breast was heaving with
spasms of pain, his hands trembling like leaves, his
breath coming in gasps. The Champion gazed at his
pet pupil with sorrow. To be tortured and tormented
with mental pincers and screws was not the way
to " strip like a picture." The agony of a few hours
had thrown him back at least a fortnight in his
training. It was without indignant arguments, therefore,
that he listened to his favourite's plans. Something
had happened which rendered it necessary for
him to seek my lord at once on business of gravest
moment — to leave retirement. Under such circumstances
it was idle to talk of training. There was no
denying that. So Mr. Cribbb said something offensive
to himself about Miss Eowe, and acquiesced in the
desirability of postponing the fight once more.

Chapter XYIIL

ASHES.

Do 5'on think that it was unhandsome in Mr. Smalley
to steal such a march, and circumvent the schemes of
his beloved ? In deciding so to do, he was actuated
b}- a complication of motives. He was grateful to
my lord for patronage, jealous of Leoline, anxious to
keep his nut-brown maid out of doing mischief that
might injure others. You would have applauded him,
perhaps (from our neighbours we expect the loftiest
flights), if he had said with a neat bow, 'dear madam,
let me help you to trim with soft warm fur the countess's
coronet that you propose to wear. I shall be
heartbroken, but that is of no consequence. Marry
and make blissful for ever the man for whom I myself
have a nati-al antipathy'' It would have been
romantic but unnatural. Are you prepared to deny
that it is our duty to prevent those whom we adore
from stumbling, specially when our own cause will be
benefited by our intervention ? It may have displeased
you, perhaps, to remark that Lord Osmington's
outrageous treatment of Miss Eowe should so little

have stirred her cousin. Was he not always breathing
fire and flame, prating of the awful things he would
do if any one presumed to insult his Abigel ? The
placable, unpractical Leo was provoked beyond measure
at the insult, while pugilistic Cyrus took it
quite easily. Truth to tell, Master Cy deemed the
maiden to have acted hastily, for there was much cry
over very little wool, and she seemed to him to have
cut off her nose to spite her face. All the world is
aware that gentlemen when drunk do things which
they regret when sober, and so we must make the
best of the inferior sex, and overlook men's little shortcomings
when the worse for liquor. At the time
of Abby's disappearance her cousin was mightily
perturbed, conjuring up all sorts of accidents and
misfortunes as likely to have happened; but when
it transpired that she was safe and refused to forgive
a somewhat coarse jest, he declared her to be a little
fool who would live to repent her folly. Though
gentle and chivalrous and brave — true as steel — unflinching
when he could discern his path clearly, our
bruiser was not given to straw splitting, neither was
he particularly squeamish over trifles. Eight and
wrong to him were two great high-roads, plainly discernible
; as to the little wandering bypaths and bifur-
cations, he troubled himself in no wise about them.

People who pry often see more than they desire to
witness, just as listeners hear disparaging remarks

about themselves. If Cyrus had not been sentimental,
had tucked himself quietly between the sheets as
became a person on whose success much money had
been laid, instead of sighing in the moonlight, how
differently might events have been arranged ! He
would have continued his training to the satisfaction
of Mr. Cribbb, have drubbed the Pink of Bow, have
rem-ned to pop the question ; and Abigel, having
succeeded meanwhile in opening that cupboard, as no
doubt she would, might, in the end, after a course of
boredom have become desperate enough even to have
accepted him. You and I know that Abigel was much
too single-minded to search for a coronet with a view
of sharing it herself. C^tus would have recognized
this, if the green-eyed marplot had not muddled his
modicum of brains. She chose to consider herself the
emissary of Fate, destined to perform a series of
acts ; and having succeeded in finishing her work,
might have found continued, objectless maidenhood
among the rats and black beetles unbearable, and
have been induced by persevering persuasion to change
her mind. But here was a pretty coil ! Surprised in
the midst of clandestine researches, she had thrown
herself, as it were, on the generosity of Cyrus, had
been gracious enough to propose to take him as
accomplice, and he had betrayed her confidence.
Early next morning she discovered the tell-tale marks
upon the cabinet. The twisted lock yielded, and

:among the medicine phials she could find no paper.
And yet Lady Olivia in her diary distinctly stated that
letters of import reposed in a black cabinet. Could
ihej be in some other receptacle ? No.

The reason for Cyrus's abrupt departure was evident.
He had filched the treasure, and was about to place it
in the hands of him who should be the last of men to
hold it. By doing so he would rouse the suspicion of
Lord Osmington, who would, of course, throw difficulties
in the way of further investigation, and make
her task more hard. What could the information be,
she wondered, that Olivia had deemed important ?
By dint of poring over the diary, the eyes of Abigel
became used to the pale ink and crabbed characters,
.sand she was able to decipher more than at first had
;appeared possible. Jeremiads, lamentations, soul
scourging in monotonous sequence. The second
Lady Osmington had apparently been the victim of a
mania. She was haunted by a notion that she was
-enjoying the harvest of another person's acres, and
reiterated again and again how gladly she would
abandon the wealth which belonged to somebody else.
And then came mental racking with regard to her
husband and her son. It appeared that the second
lord was a harsh man who resented the jeremiads.
And, indeed, that was little to be wondered at. If you
are in comfortable and undisputed possession of property,
it must be annoying to be ragged at by your

importunate rib, who practically worries you to resign
it in favour of a non-existent claimant. For by lier
o^Yn sllo^Ying, there ^Yas no claimant in Olivia's time ;
she had searched for an Irish Jervois in vain. And if
there ^Yas no claimant, how could this paper be important
? That it was, Olivia was certain, for it corroborated,
she wrote, that which was graven on the
monument. What monument, and what had been
graven upon it ? Abigel was distracted. What special
information could be contained in the ravished document
? On the threshold of a discovery she had been
baulked by her own flesh and blood. With pleasure
could she have banged her cousin's head against a
wall. She sat down and tried to think, while Cy
was riding London wards.

The usual motley crowd was assembled in the antechambers
of Osmington House, awaiting the morning
levee, when the pugilist appeared in the hall; and
the Spanish valet, who had backed him heavily in
the coming conflict, remarked his aspect with dismay.
So did the waiting multitude. Maraquita and Eosina
had wrung a promise from their lord of certain earrings
in the event of Cy's success ; and how could
this haggard man be expected to gain the day, whose
skin was clammy, whose eyes were dull and bloodshot
? Some of the clients stole away to warn other
patrons. The Sprig of Myrtle was the favourite ;
many had laid their money on him, and it behoved

them to hedge forthwith. The Spanish valet was for
cross-questioning the bruiser. What was up ? Was
his wind queer ? Did he feel bad in his inside ?
But the Sprig cut short his kind inquiries, and vowed
he must see my lord. Certainly he should see my
lord without delay, for he, too, was supposed to have
backed Cyrus, and stood to lose large sums. My
lord had been out all night — was eating something now
preparatory to a snooze. There would be no levee. His
lordship would doubtless see his protege before he went
to bed. Of course he would. Mr. Smalley would be
good enough to proceed to his lordship's bed-chamber.
If Cyrus was worn and haggard, Vere looked like
a corpse. His face was as bloated as poor Sheridan's,
who was sliding headlong to the deuce. His features
were thickened by excess. Through the redness of
an inflamed cuticle a bluish tint was perceptible,
which gave to his countenance a hue of sickly purple.
Unless he reformed, and speedily, my lord was not
long for this world, Cyrus thought; and yet some
men's iron constitutions permit them to drag their*
diseased carcases for years through the world, while
more healthy ones fall prone before the Reaper. He
still wore the clothes of the previous night — nankeen
breeches, draggled and torn, and soiled silk stockings.
His dark hair was rumpled; his shirt was stained
with wine, his coat with mud. In the light of morning
he was not an engaging spectacle, as he mumbled

pepper sandwiches and poured out, with grime stained
hand, a bumper of capelle.

What the dash, dash, dash, are you doing here ? "
he gurgled, so soon as he was aware of his visitor.
A sprig of myrtle ! You look more like a ragweed
with those yellow gills ! Don't you know, sirrah,
that your health's your fortune ? You've been drinking,
you beast. What the dash, dash, dash, can
Cribbb be about ? You're all one — a set of blackguards,
who grovel like swine when our backs are
turned. What the dash, dash, do you mean by it ?
Heh?"

Cy's impression was that if some one was a beast
and grovelled like a pig, it was not he. In a moment
of heat he wished he had not come. Why should
he do a kindness to this Mohock lord, who, in return,
belched forth foul epithets ? But then he remembered
that his lordship was not sober yet — would be more
civil and sensible after a snooze. And yet those papers
must be handed over at once, since he had made
up his mind that they were my lord's legitimate
property. Meekly enduring the abuse of his patron,
therefore, he produced from an inner pocket the
precious documents, and explained how he had come
by them. His cousin was a silly wench, whose frowardness
my lord would pardon. Silly wenches
could never keep their fingers off locked cabinets, anymore
than Fatima could keep the key out of the lock

VOL. 11. 31

of the blue-chamber door. Any way, the papers, such
as they were, had come into the hands of their owner,
so all was well. Seeing that he had acted loyally,
his lordship would acquiesce in the postponement of
the combat ; for indeed the Sprig felt qualmish and
out of sorts — he who was usually so robust. With
my lord's permission he would go to the seaside, and,
no doubt, would soon recover.

Vere mumbled his sandwiches and sipped his liqueur
in silence, listening with a nod, now and then, of
approval ; and the expression of his eyes was sinister,
as he hearkened to the tale of the protege. So the
little girl was up to pranks ? That was natural, for
were not all fillies skittish ? The only wonder was
that she had behaved well so long, never bothering for
trinkets or worrying for expensive ornaments. It
was not that which made him wroth. Although for
Pentecost's sake the chit might not be bullied, yet the
old woman must be warned to look after her grand-niece.
Abby's frowardness might imbue that tawny
page of Caroline's with energy, rouse him to give
trouble. Fearful of some such thing happening some
day, my lord had made one or two feeble efforts to
sweep him out of existence ; but the young fellow had
himself seemed so indifferent, that it was scarce worth
while to crush him. Only half an hour ago, when
the secretary was asked who was waiting in the antechamber,
that gentleman had said that, among a host

of others, the young man was there whom the wayward
Process of Wales chose to cliih Northallerton; and my
lord, whose nerves were shaky, had given a great start
that astonished the worthy man. What could Caroline's
page want with Lord Osmington ? A message of
insult, i^robahly, from his mistress, to be sent to the
Regent through the medium of his crony. But now,
by the light of Cyrus's tale, his presence seemed to
wear a graver aspect. Could he be aware of the
meddling girl's tricks ? Was he in communication
with her ? It would be well to ascertain this. My
lord doffed his hectoring manner, therefore, and was
pleased to be satisfied with Mr. Smalley's conduct.
He was a most excellent and admirable young man,
worthy of patronage. It was provoking that his gills
should be so yellow ; but the human form is a complicated
piece of machinery, liable to get out of order
at the least opportune moment. My lord would place
the matter before the Pugilistic Club in Bond Street,
:and the postponement of the grand event would be
managed in spite of outcry. Meanwhile, would hebe
good enough to protrude his head into the anteroom,
and request Mr. Jarvis the poet to come
hither ?

Now it was Cy's tm-n to start. Leoline was here !
Was my lord about to tell him what his ]protege had
done ? Not that Mr. Smalley cared, for he had only
done what he conceived to be right.

Lord Osmington laughed a demon's laugh, like the
rattling of dice, and said, "Never fear. Confidences
are confidences. By the way, you've read the documents
? Do they contain any marvellous revelation?"


Cyrus blushingly admitted that he had read the
documents, which led him to understand that the
fugitive James Christopher had had a son.

"Pshaw! Is that all?" cried my lord, relieved.
That was not denied. He had a son who died of
smallpox. What fudge ! Go, summon Mr. Jarvis."

Before Cy was well out of the apartment, Yere
clutched the papers with such feverish eagerness as
to disconcert the pugilist. He had been rather hurt
in that his lordship had not deigned to touch them,
leaving the wan scraps where they had been laid, as
if mere waste paper. Why then this excitement when
he thought himself alone ? A heavy portiere of
Eastern stuff concealed the doorway, and Cyrus, in
his preoccupation, forgot to shut the door. My lord
gave a hasty " Ha ! " which, like the sharp crack of a
pistol-shot, arrested Cy's departing steps. My lord's
indifference was assumed. Did he suspect something
then ? did he know more than he pretended ?
"Pio! pio ! " he heard his patron mutter. "Born
to servitude and misery, indeed. Rubbish ! What's
this ? There's more here than that he had a son ;.
but. Heaven be praised, this fellow was too stupid to

perceive it. Not that it matters ; but it is well to
be cautious. Hem, i'm ! " And Cyrus, as he went
upon his errand, began to wonder if he had done right
after all in sui-rendering James Christopher's epistle.
When in a few moments he returned with Leoline, he
was astonished to perceive that his lordship had succeeded
in rising, and was leaning his brow upon the
mantel-piece. That was, in itself, a natural proceeding
; for marble mantels are deliciously cool to a
throbbing forehead, so long as the fire is unlighted.
But there had been a fire — at all events, something
had been consumed. Yere was looking down with a
smirk of satisfaction at a heap of blackened ashes on
the hearth. A hand-lamp, which was always left all
night in my lord's chamber, yet flickered on the table.
He had destroyed the letter of the last Lord Northallerton,
and also the Pitiful wail of James Christopher
of Broagh.

*^ Leave us, my dear boy ! " cried my lord, with a
wicked glitter in his eye that boded mischief; "but
don't go far away, as I must speak with you presently."
What did that glitter mean ? Cyrus felt a conviction
that the papers were more important than he had
supposed, and that my lord in destroying them had
got rid of something which might prove dangerous to
himself. Could Leoline really be the dispossessed
heir ? Was Abigel right ; and he, blundering muddle -
pated Cyrus, an unconscious agent in a deed of

infamy ? Much as he might hate Leoline and wish
him evil, Cyrus Smalley was not the man to strike a
foe from behind. He would pummel him, blacken
his eyes, in open loyal warfare, if he were of his own
size and weight; if not, he would abhor him, but
refrain from smiting. There was something about
Lord Osmington's attitude that required explanation.
Did he intend to lay violent hands on Leoline ? It
was by his order, as Caleb had confessed, that he
was waylaid on the morning of the ridotto. On that
occasion, Cyrus had come to the rescue. Was it
decreed that he must do so once again? Was he
always to be interfering on the behalf of his enemy ?
Cyrus remained behind the portiere, burning to Imoww
more, wondering what he ought to do if his lordship
meant foul play ?

But Vere was as polite to Mr. Jarvis as he had
been to Mr. Smalley. " Pray come in, young sir ! "
he cried; ''I must call you sir, though you were a
blacksmith's apprentice, now you're so fine a gentleman.
I forget and beg pardon : my lord, I think ?
Have you not changed your two syllables for four ? "

Leoline looked confused. 'not by my desire," he
said.

Oh ! Then you don't lay claim to the extinct
earldom ? You are not such a fool as I thought ! "

"It is not extinct, but dormant," replied haughty
Leoline. ''I told you once before, my lord, that I

am Earl of Northallerton; and I said at the same
time that in this world I never expected to he recognized
as such."

What a pity ! " scoffed Vere. " Might I inquire
what 3'ou want of me ? "

"What, indeed! " replied the youth. " A helpless
child, I threw myself on your generosity, and you
behaved like a devil ! You did your best to keep
me down ; to chain me within so limited a sphere
as would prevent my ever being dangerous. I want
nothing from you, except that which is my own."

Ha, ha ! " laughed Yere. " The estates in Yorkshire,
I suppose, and a farm or two in Lancashire ;
or will your worship leave me the farm or two ?
I'm not so proud as you, and will crave a favour.
Yonder is a brush. Will you be so good as to sweep
those ashes a little further back — that chimney's
plaguy draughty, and will blow them into the room ?"

Leoline bit his lip and drew himself up, but composed
his temper with an effort. The ungenerous
usurper of his rights persisted in treating him as a
menial — unworthy spite ! My lord was enchanted by
his indignant look. This interview was infinitely to
be preferred to pepper sandwiches ; was more entertaining
than tiffs with Maraquita and Eosina. It was
church, though, to refuse to touch those ashes.

What may be your wish then, since you will not
accept of the estates ? '*

*' My royal mistress is about to leave England,"
Leoline explained. " I do not know, as yet, whether
I accompany her Royal Highness ; whether I do or
not, I would wish to repossess that which I gave you
long ago, all that remains to me of my dearest mother
except a valueless seal."

*you gave me!" echoed Vere. "I thought the
gifts were all on my side ! "

Her marriage lines," Leoline said in a low voice.
** It can do you no harm to let me have them back."

"I am sorry," returned Vere, dryly; "but that
most valuable certificate has been stolen."

Stolen ! "

By a young friend of yours. Miss Abigel Kowe.
I only learnt the fact just now."

Lord Osmington leaned forward in his chair and
scrutinized the lineaments of Leoline. Surprise —
real surprise, was all that could be read upon his face.
There was no conspiracy betwixt him and the girl.
Yet surely she could not be working by herself?
Perhaps she was grubbing about out of feminine
curiosity, without a definite object. No ; or why had
she taken the marriage certificate out of Lady Olivia's
chest, where it had been idly dropped by Vere no
matter how long since ? It was all very intricate, and
incomprehensible.

** Your father was a soldier, if I remember right ? "
Vere inquired, with a yawn. "Estimable creatures,

soldiers. And this father — what was he ? A sailor,
perhaps, or a tinker, or a ploughboy, or a thief? You
don't know ? You really and truly don't know ? How
funny not to know one's grandfather, and an earl
too ! "

Alas ! I do not know. Do you ? " Leoline said
quickly.

"Faugh! Such scum!" cried Vere, with an assumption
of ineffable contempt. "It is out of my
power, you see, to give you what you ask. Better
apply to Miss Eowe, I think ; and when you write,
please beg her to steal nothing more. Thieves are
inconvenient in a house. A pleasant trip abroad,
my lord Northallerton. Your most obedient servant.
Smalley, come hither ! "

When Cyrus entered. Lord Osmington was performing
an elaborate mock reverence, while the evil
gutter still shone out of his eyes.

Show the gentleman out," he said, " and then
return."

Neither my honour nor my honours are at
stake," he announced to his reflection in the glass,
with a yawn, as he began to prepare for bed. " The
fool knows really nothing, and never will. What can
have taken the little girl to make her so eccentric ?
Can she be enamoured of his heaiix yeux ? That must
be it. I wish she had remained, for I miss her genial
presence sorely. Eosina is too outrageous: must begot

rid of — a grasping little Jew. I'll clear them all
out, and have back Abigel. I will, though she does
pilfer papers. She'll want coaxing, the slut, out of
her sulks. It's rather entertaining to coax little darlings.
I'll go myself and mollify her. What airs, as
of a princess ! My lady Hertford is not more magnificent."
At thought of Abigel's sharp ways and
superb imperious gestures, Lord Osmington laughed in
high good humour as he tied the strings of his nightcap.
*' Who's that? Oh, you, Smalley. After thinking
the matter over I've resolved that you must return to
Stratton. Go on with your training, as if nothing had
happened, and if you should see any more nocturnal
chicanery, just let me know. Do you hear ? "

"Return to Stratton!" exclaimed Cyrus, taken
aback. How could he return and face his cousin ?
The interview between my lord and Leoline had
opened his eyes. My lord knew a vast deal more than
he pretended; there was no doubt of it. A half-developed
fear lurked under his malignant banter.
My lord was afraid of Leoline, and there was some
secret hidden in the letters. How friendly to have
invited the youth to sweep up the ashes of his own
hopes ! What could it be that gave such special import
to the documents, in my lord's eyes ? How stupid of
a blundering but well-meaning yeoman to have mixed
himself in this ! Abigel's anger and contempt would
be justified, and he could only kneel in the dust.

confessing this sins, imploring forgiveness, — a nice
position for a lover. A lover ! What was the use of
trying to conjure the delusion? Leoline was preferred,
or why should she roam in the night on his
]behalf? She never would do as much for Cyrus!
Leone the willowy and slim, with absurdly narrow
shoulders, was the favoured swain; and Cy was perfectly
justified in execrating Leoline.

On reflection, he could not blame himself for what
he had done. From his own point of view, it was
lawful and right to prevent an inexperienced and
impulsive girl from using, on behalf of an impostor,
documents out of Lord Osmington's cabinet, in
Lord Osmington's library. But what if it were
Leoline's library ? A field of conjecture was opened
out, that set the brain of the iDugilist reeling. Those
accusing ashes on the hearth made him feel so
humble, that he was prepared to do as he was bid
henceforth, rather than trust to his own judgment
any more. And yet to return to the presence of the
loved one, who not only didn't love in return, but was
bursting with fire and fury, was a direful prospect.
Was not so heavy a punishment in undue proportion
to the sin ? My lord was peremptory as to his immediate
return to Yorkshire, so there was nothing for
it but obedience. Cribbb was coming up to town by
coach, not being accustomed to the saddle. Cy was
to ride that very day, stop Cribbb, and take him back

to the town of Stratton-on-the-Fosse ; and must
make his peace with Abigel as best he might. Lord
Osmington would be journeying thither himself in a
week or so, and a room or two must be got ready for
his reception. Cy would be good enough to occupy
himself with this without delay, and leave his patron
to his slumbers, conveying a message to the valet ere
he went, that my lord was to be called at six, and
that twenty guests were to be found to dinner.

Yes ; I will go up there myself," muttered Vere,
as he drew the clothes over his shoulders. '^ My headaches
damnably. I'll go and blow up Pentecost,
who is growing too old to attend to things. And I'll
coax that tetchy niece to forget and forgive, and
assume the chatelaine. Nobody makes tea as well
as she does. It won't do to have her poking about.
She might drop by accident on something else. Not
that there is anything else. How to be sure of that,
though ? Who could have told that those infernal
letters still existed ? Koger Jarvis ! Ha, ha ! Koger
Jarvis. As dead as a door-nail is Master Eoger,
thank goodness, and as silent. We've heard the last
of him''

Chapter VI.

VENUS VICTRIX?"

Meanwhile things were going no better with our
royalties. When the brilliant ball is over, the garish
sun creeps in and touches with searching rays the
crushed flowers, scraps of tarlatane, torn ribbons ;
and we long for the advent of the housemaid to
sweep away the rubbish. The festivities were over
in honour of the Allies, and the smart uniforms were
packed in silver paper, the cocked hats and swords
relegated to slumber in their cases. Some people
began to think that rejoicing were premature, to
doubt whether the Corsican would remain quietly on
his isle of Elba because he had been whipped and
told to be good. Even the Regent, who loved splendour
and display, was relieved when the time came
to say good-bye, for he lived in mortal terror of the
here noire — was in constant dread of some new annoyance.
The fickle mob grew tired of glitter. The
hirsute Platoffff ceased to amuse the rabble ; the thickset,
awkward Blucher was voted a loutish bore ; even

polite Alexander was pronounced undignified. It was
time the guests should go, lest they should outstay
their welcome ; for the public mind began to occupy
itself again with home matters — the marriage prospects
of Charlotte, and the departure of her mother
for the Continent.

Several results of importance followed that un-rehearsed
effect in the auditorium of his Majesty's
Opera-house. Caroline, baulked and angry, wrote
as usual to the Morning Chronicle, stating that England
was made too hot for her by enemies ; that
if she only had wings she would fly away like a
dove and be at rest ; that her lacerated heart required
peace which was only to be found in a desert.
She worried Mr. Whitbread, teased Mr. Brougham,
made Mr. Canning's life like bran in the mouth to
him ; till they one and all confessed that, being no
longer useful, she was indeed a dreadful woman, to begot
rid of as soon as might be. As Charlotte had
foreseen, the projected exodus found little favour with
the nation. People were ashamed to think that their
future King had been so harsh to his wife that she
could not even dwell in the same country ; they were
hurt that she should display such alacrity in turning
her broad back upon her adopted home. What did
she want among the monsters ? The English had
been so long at war that all monsters were looked
upon with distrust. It was all very well to get up

fetes in honour of one or two of them, and, clapping
them on the shoulder, call them fine fellows. In his
heart of hearts John Bull despised his guests, and
deemed them capable of any treachery. Meetings
were held to protest against the departure of the
martyr, and she, who had writhed under daily growling
neglect, was charmed with the sensation she had
made. She really was anxious to be gone, and having
started her hare, was capable of running him down
with obstinate energy.

The more people objected to her going the more
she was resolved to go. Whitbread and Brougham
had so cooled that she could no longer trust their
counsels. The two elder Sapios robbed her now and
stole her spoons, without a semblance of disguise.
She was th-ed of the Yauxhall fiddlers, and longed to
form another Comus cohort of a still more discreditable
grade. Parliament being consulted did its best
to change her purpose. On the question of money
being brought forward, a pension of ^50,000 was
assigned to her if she would consent to remain in England,
which was to be diminished to £35,000 if she
persisted in going abroad. With alacrity she accepted
the smaller sum, and began to pack her trunks.

The rehearsed effect had, as might be supposed,
exasperated the unfortunate Regent to the highest
possible degree. He had grown used to be shown
in a false light to the populace, and accepted his

untoward fate; but to be made to look like a fool
before the crowned heads ! Surely that might have
been spared him. It was all very well to have
promised Mrs. Fitzherbert, in a sentimental moment,
to be benignant and long-suffering. Even she — meek
seraph fit for heaven — would have been choleric had
she witnessed the distressful scene. Poor George
never posed as an angel — not he, — but as a man who
had had his share of life's buffets; as an ordinary
pilgrim on life's rugged road who had cut his feet
with the stones, had tumbled down and picked himself
up again, just as you and I do, my brethren.
During that pathetic interview with the old love, he
had declared plaintively that he was always kind to
those who were kind to him'; had plainly hinted that
the turning of the other cheek was absurd in'practice ;
was even so abandoned as to admit sometimes that
the other-cheek theory was beyond his comprehension.
A pretty thing ! After Adam's fall the
birds and beasts began to bark and bite, and it
became their nature to do so. To hold your own ina
naughty world you have to push and struggle and
scratch. A nice figure you would make if you stood
in the middle of the road turning the other cheek !
The theory was ridiculous and transcendental — a
condition for visionaries to dream of, not for human
men and women to put into practice. Are we not
to hold our own ? not to push and kick in the

general scrimmage ? What would the lawyers do
the pettifogging attorneys, the legal vultures — if
we were always to exhibit that cheek? The Prince
of Wales did not profess to he any better than his
neighbours. If people struck him he would hit back
as hard as he could. Was it his fault that, because
a misguided woman of no education ate an apple
once, all the beasts will bark and bite ? As George
reflected upon Caroline and her ill-timed curtsying
and cheeses, his hatred of her became physical suffering.
Ministers preached that he must grin, and bear
her blows. It is so easy for those to preach who are
not buffeted. In the presence of the royalties he tried
to look as if he was amused b}^ her conduct, but in his
private sanctum, among the blue velvet couches and
Chinese lanterns, the bitterness of his soul found vent,
and he threw about the furniture, cursing the Dreadful
Woman — herself and all that was hers. He raved
and babbled of divorce ; he always did when specially
ruffled. He would have the doings at *' Trou Madame''
investigated ; he would be shown in a false light no
more. A fig for mob and ministers ! The gulled and
hoodwinked populace should see of what base clay the
idol was made, which in their besotted ignorance they
chose to worship. What? The many-headed were
uneasy, were they ? Pervaded by revolutionary principles
; unprepared for more exposures ? He could
not help that. The throne and crown might go. A
VOL. n. 32

man is a man, and cannot endure more than a given
amount of provocation. Revolution or no revolution, he
would show up that woman, procure a divorce, be free.
Thus did the Grand Signor, erst Florizel the fortunate
and beautiful, pour forth his griefs into the
ears of sympathizing friends — Hertfordss, Yarmouth,
Alvanley. But while they sympathized, they could not
approve his plans. My lord Osmington, who, careless
and profligate, was a man of the world, and
judged its doings as part and parcel of itself, took up
his parable and spake. No ministers, he argued,
would help him to cut his own throat, to heap more
ordure upon the already dabbled ermine. They had
certain trusts confided to their keeping which they
were bound to guard. It was their distinct duty to
prevent his doing anything that would jeopardize the
throne. Divorce indeed ! The orgies at " Trout
Madame'' might be very shocking. So were the earlier
orgies with Sir Sydney Smith and Captain Manby.
Long-headed ministers then — Grenville, Ellenborough,
and the rest — though satisfied in their own consciences,
were afraid to give a verdict. (why recur to that
fiasco ? " the Regent groaned.) The present case was
a parallel one. Caroline might be shown in her true
colours, but she would retaliate. Were his own hands
clean — any cleaner than those of all the others who
had by general agreement expunged a certain commandment
? To neglect your own wife and make

love to your neighbour's, was one of the rules of
fashionable society, and had been time out of
mind. That was well and good. But he who was to
babble of divorce with dignity must be able himself
to display a certain amount of spotlessness — a rare
condition of whiteness, which people talked about and
professed to admire, but very seldom saw. He, the
Grand Signor, who did not pretend to possess Christian
virtues, was unable to flutter forth in a white
robe. In showing up the here noire, would he not also
be showing up himself? Besides, why fuss about
divorce, unless he was anxious to take another wife ? —
a ridiculous folly, of which my lord Osmington would
not insult his chief by deeming him capable. Marriage
was an absurd but unpleasant trap — a gin, a
pitfall, which it behoved the wary to avoid. Indeed,
for his part, my lord Osmington was of opinion that
single blessedness ought to be taxed as the greatest of
human luxuries. The only object of matrimony was
to provide heirs. Well ; there was an heiress, the
Princess Charlotte, a great girl in perfect health, with
the constitution of a milkmaid. What more could
the Regent require ? Indeed, by his querulous plaints
he was tempting Providence (here my lord assumed
the manner of a preacher in a pulpit), and it would
serve him right if retribution fell upon his casey.
The Dreadful Woman had for years been a thorn.
That was not denied. But now that of her own freewill

she was about to remove herself out of his flesh,
was it not a time for joy rather than howling ? If
his dear friend would take the worldly-wise advice of
a roue, who knew a thing or two, he would hold his
tongue and accept events with pious gratitude. The
woman wanted to go. Let her, by all means. Give
her rope enough to hang herself, and be thankful to
see her swing. Thus my lord Osmington ; and when
he had concluded, a buzz of admiration escaped from
the lips of the circle.

He was right. Jovial Frederick slapped his fat
thigh, and wondered, by Jove, where he got his powers
of reasoning. It was as true as print. Demy, it
was, by jingo. George confessed he was right, but
declined to believe that she was really going, until
she was gone. This might be some new snare. It
was too good to be true. When she was safe across
the water, then he would sing and jubilate. A prudent
person counts not his chickens before they are
hatched, or cries till he's out of the wood. So far it
was all very well, but there were other matters that
vexed the Regent sorely, matters which he did not
choose to discuss with the cronies. It was a deplorable
circumstance that between himself and his daughter
there should exist that barrier of mutual distrust. He
knew that in some things she saw with Her mother's
eyes, that she insisted on beholding the martyr's
halo. Whatever her own opinions might be, the

Princess revolted at hearing her mother abused before
lier face. The Prince of Wales was always so full of
his grievances that he could not hel^j cursing Caroline
in the presence of Charlotte, and the latter, out of
proud contrariness, took her mother's part. Hence
the Prince believed the maternal influence to be
greater than it was. The letters the mother wrote
were most reprehensible ; the scrawled advice that
had been found in the pain* of shoes was deplorably
mischievous ; and then there was that blue-eyed page,
who was always hanging about the premises. What
could he be there for ? Certainly no good. The utter
failure of the Regent to enforce his will upon the girl
rankled deeply in his mind, the more that in her successful
obstinacy he beheld a triumph of the foe. On
the subject of Orange she had shilly-shally ; had
provoked her mother, displeased her father ; had said
she would and then that she wouldn't ; had behaved
like a wayward hussy. He had distinctly promised
the old love to eschew tyranny; but then the other
adviser at Hertford House held strait-laced views
regarding daughters. By flying in her father's face
she held up that father to ridicule. She was tm-bu-
sent and inclined to rebellion. Witness her attitude
on the question of governesses some time since. A
self-willed girl of eighteen should be brought to her
bearings. Her Majesty the Queen had often said as
much. If her Majesty the Queen had not been

happy in the management of her own daughters, that
was neither here nor there. The Princess was obstinate,
was badly advised, and but too ready to act on
bad advice. Those about her were partly to blame
for this. The Duchess of Leeds was a weak, well-meaning
idiot. Miss Knight, the has hleii, was always-too
busy over odes and plays to keep vigilant watch
over the young lady. Perhaps it would be well again
to change her household, to surround her with less
sleepy dragons. The counsel was good, and worth a
trial; weighty, too, coming as it did from the Queen and
from his friend, and it jumped moreover with the inclinations
of the Regent. He would not be tyrannical,
nor force his daughter's inclinations, but he would
see that she was removed from incompetent hands,
as behoved an affectionate papa. But the Princess-charlotte,
herself suspicious of evil, altogether declined
to entertain the Regent's wishes. She was of age, she
kept repeating. What next, indeed ! Not content
with cruelly ill-treating mamma and bullying his
child, he wished now to deprive the latter of such few
friends as she possessed, and surround her with his
own creatures — spies, who would report every action,
watch every movement. Change her forms, when
she had grown used to them ! Was ever anything so
outrageous ? "Will he never comprehend," she cried,
*that my nature is one to be worked on easily by
kindness, not at all by oppression ? I am eighteen.

fit to reign if need were, no longer to be repressed
and treated like an infant. Does he wish to make me
detest him ? " It was to be a trial of will between
father and daughter. She was no more inclined
than he to turn the other cheek, so they set their
teeth and prepared to bark and bite, just like the
lower animals.

Miss Knight, who loved her charge, and was an
upright, clever woman, flew across the yard to
Carlton House, and expostulated. She was always
flying across and expostulating, that jawbone,
weariful female. AVhat did she mean by talking of
repression? the Regent inquired. During the fetes
had not the Princess been presented, been permitted
to show herself ? Had she not even given little teas
in her nunnery, and made eyes at Leopold of Saxe-coburg,
the protege of Alexander ? It was very
naughty to have received young men in that virginal
but gaunt dwelling. The Regent was shocked, and
so was Jovial Frederick, at such brazenness. It was
all Miss Eight's fault, whose views were not sufficiently
strict ; who, doubtless, encouraged her charge
in bad behaviour and taught her to leer and ogle.
Lad" Hertford was wise m her covert advice, and
so was the Queen. The establishment must be upset —
placed on a sterner basis. If the maid wanted freedom,
why not marry Orange — a nice young man, a most
eligible match ? She must understand that it behoved

a princess to do what she was told ; and so forth —
quid so writer — the usual catalogue.

Far be it from me to defend the Grand Signor. He
had no business to sit upon his daughter. Men,
neither fathers nor husbands, should never sit upon
young ladies. The broils which took up the time of
the royal family at this juncture were due to want
of tact on the part of both belligerents. And now
I come to think of it, I am reminded of an occult
spirit of antagonism which obtains sometimes between
even the nearest relations — oftener between
persons who are not closely allied. It is a strange
fact, but undoubtedly a fact, that two persons, who
apart are no worse than the rest of us, may exert
over each other a magnetic influence for evil. You
may perceive the working of the principle sometimes
in ill-assorted couples. A, the husband, is the best
of fellows — open-hearted, cheery, kind. B, the wife,
is ditto. But when the pair are together these good
qualities wither, shrivel away, give place to their
antitheses. A complains that B can be agreeable to
every man but himself. B insists that by his own
fireside A is an insufferable companion. The prodigy
has been explained in many ways. It has been
argued that mortals must have dull, cross moments ;
that you can't be always at your best; that if you
lay yourself out to please Dick and Tom, a feeling
of exhaustion follows, which you reserve for the

privacy of home. But this is no explanation. Have
you not been yourself aware, sir or madam, of a curious
feeling in the presence of some other person which
it has puzzled you to analyze ? — a sense that, however
much you may respect and esteem that other
person, you cannot be at your best in his presence ?
The good seems to ooze out of you when he is in the
room. You say perverse things which astonish yourself,
and you know that, in spite of a desire to be
otherwise, you are unamiable. Every one must have
felt this at some time, who takes the trouble to dissect
his sensations. To a certain extent it may have been
thus with Charlotte and her papa, independent of
Caroline's machinations. Many people who live inclose
contact all their lives never learn to comprehend
each other. In the case of these two, however, there
were sufficient extraneous causes to account for their
uncomfortable attitude. A breach delved by distrust
is ever widening, till in time it becomes antipathy.

When the autocrat of Eussia was about to depart,
he called at the nunnery to say adieu, and good-naturedly
attempted to patch up the Orange quarrel.
He might as well have chattered to the wind, and
said as much to his royal host during leave-taking.
The Regent grimaced and bowled, and shrugged his
shoulders. "What would they think of him? What
comic tales would they relate of the husband who
was openly bearded by his wife, of the father who

was flouted by a girl? They would despise him;
they would despise England and her institutions.
The Russians, of course, kept knots at home for the
correction of their women folk. Bluff old Blucher
was not one to be henpecked. Oh, how they must
despise him !

As soon as they were gone, decks were cleared for
action. Such a state of things could not be allowed
to continue. For the honour of his manhood it
must be made evident who was master. A peremptory
command was issued for the Princess and her
governess to come across the yard. Governess ! Hateful
word. The Princess intrenched herself behind
the megrims. She was too unwell, and declined the
invitation of papa. "Where was Doctor Baillie?
Would he be good enough to step across to Warwick
House and see if the lady was ill ? Baillie stepped
across, and came back again. The lady was quite
well enough to come if she chose — was suffering from
nervousness and tantrums. Oh, indeed! The disobedient
minx! And Miss Knight, of course, was
applying hartshorn, and bidding her not to mind.
The Prince's blood was up ! It behoved not man
to war against women. The pretty darlings ought
to have it their own way. In truth, they generally
did with honest George ; but this time the British
Lion was fairly roused, and he roared across the yard
for the minx to come to him. Really, she replied,.

she was too ill, too overcome, too hysterical; had
the vapour's and an acute pang in her knee. We
all know about Mahomet and the mountain. The
Prince buttoned his frogged stout and arranged his
wig in the glass, and stepped himself across the yard.
But he knew better than to trust himself in the
presence of irate females without witnesses. What
witness so imposing as a bishop ? Once before he
had taken a Chancellor — without effect. Surely the
hussy must respect the Church ! The Bishop of
Salisbury fluttered also across the yard, and for three
awful quarters of an hour the couple locked themselves
in and deliberately sat upon the Princess.
Prays do not suppose that they used actual violence.
No; they abused her, called her bad names — fury,
termagant, malapert, sauce-box, — to which, no doubt,
they expected her to retort with bully, drawcansir,
swash-buckler, ruffler. But she knew better than
that. There are moments when silence is particularly
golden. She tui-ned up her eyes to the ceiling, and
held her tongue ; then bounced out of the room into
the passage like a whirlwind, and, Kneeling m agitation
on the landing, exclaimed, 'god grant me
patience ! " Miss Knight and the maids streamed
forth w I wonder if any of them were at the keyhole.
Poor pet, what was the matter ? More hartshorn !
Sal-volatile ! Burnt feathers ! Had my lord the
bishop presumed to box the ears of his future sovereign

? High treason ! His head ought to decorate the
summit of Temple Bar. What could poor weak women
do in the presence of male hobgoblins ? The Princess
announced that her household was to be dismissed
immediately, that she was to be taken across the yard
to Carlton House (carried if she kicked and struggled),
pending removal to a retired cot in Windsor Forest,
where she would be fed on bread and water by the
vindictive Queen, her granny. With that the Princess
bounced up from her knees, and whisked into her
chamber with a shriek, to put on her bonnet ; for she
would not kick or scream any more, since it was useless,
but would walk under protest on her feet. The
household shuffled away to pack up their things, while
the governess stepped into the drawing-room to tell
the men what she thought of them. The British
Lion was still roaring. The smell of blood seemed to
rouse a wish for more. But the first gentleman in
Europe was bound to be a gentleman, even while
pretending to be the British Lion, doubled with Hurls
He listened politely to the governess,
apologized for putting a lady to inconvenience, but
insisted that she must go at once.

"Inconvenience!" sneered the acid lady. "My
dear papa served his sacred and gracious Majesty for
fifty years, and sacrificed his health and fortune.
'T would be very queer if his own child could not
submit to inconvenience." Would she take a bed

at Carlton House for a night ? No, she wouldn't.
An hotel, if expensive, was infinitely to be preferred
to a royal mansion where such things went on ; but
it was not the part of a poor spinster, who in spite
of all was loyal, to dilate upon painful topics. She
would drop a curtsy, and bid a fond farewell to her
persecuted charge, and then make herself scarce.
Miss Knight performed a cheese worthy almost of
Caroline, and swept away like Melpomene, but
presently returned as white as a sheet and out of
breath. What was the matter now? Had the girl
in a fit of passion stabbed herself with a bodkin, or
choked herself with a powder puff, or what ? This
agitation was not assumed. The blue-stocking was
genuinely horrified. Presently she found her voice,
and sinking on an ottoman, said in a shocked whisper,
She is gone ! "

The rage of the British Lion was not unalloyed with
satisfaction, for by running ofi" into space the damsel
had put herself in the wrong. An anxious parent
found reason to disapprove of his child's household.
He had sent to her to come to him, a distance of a
few feet. She had refused to obey. Waiving the
rights of his position, he had stooped to come to her,
had even brought a bishop with him to exhort her to
obedience ; and she altogether declined to do what
her betters ordered. She had actually, rather than
go to her papa's own house, a few paces distant, rushed

off into the street, and was at this minute traversing
in the mud. And she a princess, heiress to the
crown, who boasted of being eighteen and a woman !
Nothing could make such conduct pardonable. The
bishop would bear witness that, though hard words
were used, they were no more than were warranted by
the occasion. So turbulent a vixen required sharp
-chiding, if not a strait-waistcoat. And would she
not catch it by-and-by, when the truant was traced
and captured! All this would come out, of course,
and be the basis of another scandal. It could not be
helped. The public would hear the bishop. He would
give his testimony that she was not persecuted ; that
she was merely a headstrong maiden who required
severe treatment. What possessed the girls to be bitten
boy the errant mania? Only t'other day Miss Eowe
had fled, she knew not and cared not whither, on account
of a silly jest. And here was her dearest friend
following suit. It was wrong to have allowed her
to associate with Miss Rowe. The slate must be
rubbed clean, the household entirely reorganized.
Having no mother — no responsible mother — she must
be handed over to granny. Old friends must be
banished, old servants sent about their business.

In the mean while, where was the wandering Princess
? Miss Knight kept her own counsel, but the look
of horror remained upon her face, for she shrewdly
suspected whither she was gone, and bitterly regretted

the false move. The servants were questioned. The
3'oung lady had not taken time to change her shoon,
but, throwing on a puce pelisse and hussar hat of
the same colour, had run to Charing Cross, and,
holding out a guinea to a hackney coachman, had
ordered him to drive to Connaught Place. It was a
thousand pities, most deplorable. Who could tell
but she might run straight into the arms of Sapio, or
some other low fiddler or singer ?

Yes, the maiden had flown to her mamma. For
some time past she had determined that it would be.
absolutely necessary to see her mother and conjure
her to renounce the suicidal project of leaving
England. Partly for her sake Charlotte had broken
off her marriage ; and was quite convinced, as events
unrolled themselves, that for the good of both the two
must stand by one another. She had sought an
opportunity of communicating with the Princess of
Wales — in vain. Meetings were sternly prohibited ;
the passing of letters prevented. When it broke on
her that for disobedience in the matter of a distasteful
marriage she was to return to imprisonment at
Windsor, to be incarcerated even more closely than
before in forest-deeps, the idea pierced her brain like
a bow-shaft that, once there, it would be impossible to
see her mother, to talk, to argue, to persuade her to
remain in England ; that while the child was being
whisked off to surveillance at Crawford Lodge, the

mother would commit the error which might be irretrievable.
If Charlotte were removed to Carlton House
all chance of meeting would be absolutely frustrated.
Resolute and prompt in action, she perceived that the
only chance was the present one, and that if it were
allowed to slip a second might never offer itself. So
she ran into the street and took the coach, and drove
as fast as possible to Connaught Place. Once there
she would be under the protection of Caroline, and
none could wrest her thence until at least she had
found time to entreat and speak her mind.

Leoline and Madam Ambrosia were quietly playing
piquet in the lower parlour when the coach drove to
the door, and they both nearly jumped out of their
skins when they saw who was the occupant.

"Mercy on us! " was all that Mrs. Cotton could
ejaculate on the spur of the moment, as she flung
down the cards. Leoline opened the door. Charlotte
rushed in and fell upon a sofa, crying, " Protect me,
dearest Leoline. Thank Heaven, I am safe 1 "

What could be the meaning of this ? What could
have transpired, for the heiress presumptive to tumble
thus upon them in a dishevelled condition, out of a
frowsy hackney coach ?

"Where's mamma? I must see her instantly,"
panted the girl. " They'll be hounding after me, of
course. Quick ! I must see her before they come ! "

Madam Ambrosia and Leoline looked one at the

other with growing uneasiness. CaroHne had gone
away several hours ago, to spend a happy day at
Trou Madame'' It was very awkward, for Charlotte
had carefully been kept in ignorance of the existence
of that delectable retreat.

She's out ! " cried Charlotte, jumping up. " Where
is she gone ? I'll follow her."

The wandering Princess made for the door, and
would have sallied forth again, but Leoline, awake to
the danger of the situation, ran forward and barred
the passage. ''No, indeed'' he said, crossing his
arms with resolution. " Please God, you shall never
go there'' Something in his face and manner
shocked the maiden, and she blushed to the roots of
her bright locks. She knew too much already about her
mother. Was there something more that, out of pity,
had been hidden ? Covering her face with trembling
hands, she cowered down upon a seat and sobbed.
How dreadful ! Send for her ! Please send for
her."

A messenger was despatched on horseback, and for
more than an hour the trio sat in uncomfortable
silent suspense. At any moment some one might
arrive in search of the fugitive. What then ? Charlotte
was fully determined to cling to the tables, to
call out to passing pedestrians for help, rather than
lose this golden opportunity. Meanwhile she sat, with
face in hands, curbing her impatience as she could,

VOL. II. 33

while Leoline and Ambrosia took furtive glances at
each other and at her, and out of window ; dreading
they knew not what. Carriage-wheels ! Were these
the hunters ? No. It was Caroline's carriage sooner
than could' have been expected. Had the messenger
met her ? It was not possible, for he had galloped
in an opposite direction, as if flying for the doctor,
Caroline, as it happened, had changed her mind — had
gone for a drive to Blackheath, instead of to Bays-water
— and returning unexpectedly was transfixed on
beholding her offspring.

"Dear mother!" cried Charlotte, flying into the
maternal arms.

"Charlotte!" ejaculated Caroline, her brow darkening
as she coldly put her away.

Why — are you not — glad to see me ? " whispered
the maiden, timidly. "We have not met to speak
these six months ! "

"Why did you come?" inquired Caroline, with a
discontented visage. " Did he let you ? "

"No. I've fled to your protection, mother!"
stammered the poor thing, with hungry eyes and pale
cheeks. " They treated me so ill, and you can feel
for me."

Caroline looked preoccupied and bit her lips, while
her thick fingers drummed upon her lap. "Feel ! "
she scoffed. " What can I do with feelings ? My
heart they broke long since."

Oh, mother, don't ! " the maiden cried, spreading
out shuddering palms, as if to push away some
threatening terror. "Don't repel your only child!
I am so lonely ! " she wailed ; " for none loves me,
neither you, nor him, nor any one ! And I've tried
so hard to do what's right — to see a straight road
through the gloom. Don't cast me off ! Oh, do not !
How I \\ish that I were dead ! "

Charlotte threw herself upon a couch and buried
her face in the cushion, while her form was convulsed
hy sobs. Caroline stood looking at her with the same
inscrutable look of preoccupied embarrassment and
discontent. We Imoww that she cared nothing for
Charlotte, save as a means of offence. At any other
time it would have been rather amusing to have housed
the truant, to have made common cause with her
against him — have written to the papers on the subject,
have shouted and screamed upon the housetop. But
at this moment she was absorbed by an idee fixe.
She wanted the pension, and liberty to do as she listed
t'other side of the Channel. The affair, in fact, was
settled, except as regarded a few details; and it
was provoking to think that this girl, who had been
no help, should come like a marplot and overturn it
all. She was always a marplot ! Whenever she was
wanted she was never to the front, and now, at a
most inconvenient season, here she was sobbing and
crying in a preposterous and useless manner. They

would not allow the wife to go abroad and take the
heiress — that was certain; and moreover, if they
would, she would be an incubus. Fancy having todo
propriety for the sake of an unmarried daughter !
Better to stop at home than that. And what if she
stopped at home and commenced a new campaign ?
That was out of the question ; too late. Caroline
had made up her mind to go, and go she would. The
incubus must be got rid of, returned at once to its
proper guardian with an assurance that she, Caroline,
was innocent of the imbroglio ; an assurance in which
he would put little faith after his lengthened experience
of her manoeuvres.

Presently Charlotte recovered from the sudden and
uncontrollable spasm of grief and disappointment,
and, drying her eyes, sobbed hysterically, " I did so
want — so want to speak to you — to implore you on
my knees — not to — to go away ! "

Hoity-toity ! He was certainly justified in complaining
that the heiress was self-willed and presuming.

My dear, don't make din discours to yom* mother, "^
Caroline replied sharply. " If I say I do a ting I
(loot ! E'en jpaiions idIus ! "

Poor Charlotte felt utterly abandoned — alone in the
big world, — and hung her golden head. What was
the use of anything ? What was the good of trying
to do right — to knot so hopeless a tangle ?

When Leoline came into the room after knocking

cautiously, lie looked encouragement out of his deep-blue
eyes as he inquired if the young lady would stop
to dinner.

''No!" shouted his patroness. " De little silly
will go home."

I will not go home," replied the maid, with spirit.
She would cling to the misguided mother still, whoso
pertly resented interference, and soften her hardened
heart by degrees — persuade her with respectful
affection to adopt a better course.

Caroline frowned at the chip of the old block.
** Petite mechanic I Send a messenger for Mr.
Brougham," she said. '' He shall advise us what is
best."

So soon as the conduct of the heiress presumptive
became known to them, there was a fuss in the hives
of the great personages. Unless rescued, she might
by-and-by become as bad as mamma. All agreed
that the truant must be recaptured before the public
became aware of the adventure. It would not do to
leave her in such a stye.

The Queen was at cards, and rising instantly, much
.shocked, retired to her apartment. The Regent sent
a formal message to the heads of the law, summoning
them at once to council to decide what was to be done
with the runaway. Good Miss Knight, a woman,
though a blue-stocking, bethought herself of clothes,
and despatched the Princess's dresser to Connaught

Place with evening garments, night rails, night
smocks, nightcaps — how should I know what ?

Mr. Brougham arrived at the same time, and shook
his square head and nose. "As if there could be a
doubt ! " he snapped. " The lady must return to
"Warwick House without a second's delay; by no
means pass the night out of it."

Charlotte's anger was kindled, and she refused todo
anything of the sort. Was she a leper or infectious
that every one should shake their heads and pull
grimaces, and be so vastly anxious to be rid of her ?
Here she was, and here she meant to stay — for the
present, at all events. Her spirits rose as the ludicrous
look of consternation deepened upon every countenance.
She became gay and chatty; invited Mr.
Brougham to stop to dinner ; nodded pleasantly now
and again at Leoline ; even had a pleasant word for
Madam Cotton. They dined, and all present were
delighted with her humour. By good fortune Sapio
was in bed with the gout, and his wife was nursing
him. The remainder of the crew, on hearing wha
had arrived, vanished with celerity.

After dinner a procession was seen to approach
round the street-corner, whose advent plunged the
neighbourhood in amazement. My lord Liverpool,
the Chancellor, the Lord Chief Justice, appeared in
procession, each, oddly enough, in a hackney coach,
just as the maid had come who was the cause of all

the commotion. Then came the Chancellor of the
Duchy of Cornwall, the inevitable Bishop of Salisbury,
and, later on, Jovial Frederick, and his Grace of
Sussex. What a phalanx of bigwigs ! By Jove, it
was great fun ! Demy, a splendid game ! bawled
Frederick ; but it wouldn't do, you know. She would
return. like a gentle lamb, wouldn't she, with her
fond imcle ?

Not a bit of it. The more the bigwigs argued,
stormed, cajoled, the more resolute was Charlotte.
Little councils were held in ante-chambers, under
the stairs, anywhere, as to what means could be
devised for taming this refractory colt. Eldon growled
something about a bag, but was hushed down. The
bishop babbled texts about honouring fathers and
mothers; to which the girl responded glibly, *' How can
I honour them both at once, when they're as divided
as the poles, and will not honour each other?"
Caroline maintained a sullen silence. And so the
hours passed. It was two o'clock in the morning.
They might have been sitting there now, or their
phantoms might, if the shrewd Mr. Brougham had not,
after every persuasion was tried, been delivered of a
thought. He led her Royal Highness to a window
that overlooked the Park, and pursing his lips, said
gi-avery—

"It is for us to advise, for your Highness to accept
the responsibility of what you choose to do. The

morn is breaking. At ten the Park will be full of
people, assembled for the election of Lord Cochrane.
I have but to show you to the multitude who will
throng that green, and possibly Carlton House will
be dragged down. But an hour after the soldiers
will be out, and blood will flow; and if you live a
hundred years it will never be forgotten that your
running away from your father was the cause of all
the mischief."

The clever advocate had struck the right string;
Charlotte quailed and lowered her colours. Jolly
Frederick carried the truant home in triumph, and
left her for half an hour, shivering with the cold that
precedes sunrise, in the yard at Carlton House, while
the bigwigs discussed how to receive her. There was
no precedent. The British Lion was for roaring on,
lashing a furious tail. The role was new and exciting.
But the bare idea of Gentleman George playing the
part of the stern and virtuous parent was so amusing
to the Duke of York, that the corridors echoed with
his yells of laughter, while drops of merriment bedewed
his double chin. It is impossible for the Lion
to roar effectively if ribald people laugh, so he resigned
the role. Charlotte was allowed to go to bed without
more lecturing ; and the cronies, faint from drought,
sat down to pour forth libations of Lafitte, before the
opening day, in honour of the triumph of man over
female obstinacy and petulance.

CHAPTER VII.

MY LORD PLAYS HIS CARDS.

Lord Islington's arrangements were carried out to the
letter. Cjtus, a prey to mental woe — more harassed
by contending passions, more troubled as to the
direction of the straight path, than he had ever been
in all his simple life — picked up Cribbb at Peterborough
and delivered his lord's message. That worthy shook
his experienced head. The first requisite for a successful
pugilist, he averred, is peace of mind. How
can he keep a vigilant optic on a cunning adversary
when his thoughts are far away, engrossed by a nutbrown
maiden with black eyes ? The Pink of Bow
was little likely to allow any female charms to intervene
between himself and his work. Doll Tearsheet
was the partner of his joys, who came at beck and call
and gave no trouble ; and, if she did, could easily be
changed for another of the family. It was a million
ladies, cried honest Thomas, that so promising a pupil
as the Sprig should be thus thrown away. For he
certainly would be beaten. If a racer refuses his food

and shows a starting coat, is he not instantly
scratched ? And what are pugilists but human
racers ? It was a shame and a pity ; yet my lord, as
President of the Pugilistic Club, must be obeyed,,
though he surely might have allowed Cribbb to take
the Sprig to some other place, instead of casting him
again into the den of the devouring tigress ! Cy smiled
in sickly fashion at the Champion's despondency;
vowed that the dream was over, that he was but suffering
from the effect of a wound that would speedily
be cicatrized; that if the Champion would have
patience, he should be proud of his pupil yet, although
he, the pupil, wished that he was in the silent tomb.

Now, was this fitting language to issue from the
lips of one who was some day to wear the belt ?
What right has a young fellow, with the world
before him, dismally to growl about the tomb ? The
wound had been a severe one, but all would yet be
well perhaps. The Champion took it for granted
that his friend had proposed and been refused, so
rallied his courage again. Was not this the consummation
which Cribbb had devoutly wished ? There is
no human grief, however poignant, which may not
be got over. Broken hearts are fudge. When our
hearts are broken, we fling away the fragments and
do charming well without. They are useless appendages
— mistakes of nature, which only give trouble,,
and, like dogs' dewclaws, are better removed. Cy

would recover from the stab and forget all about it ;
but, to that end, must not be allowed to philander
after his cousin, implore her to look kindly on his
suit. She must be made to understand that flirtation
and pugilism are best kept apart, and be invited
to give a wide berth to the Stratton inn and its
occupants, and tempt the young man no more.

But Tom Cribbb did not find himself called upon to
make ungallant speeches to the lady. She heard, of
course, that Cyrus was back again, and shunned the
village of her own accord ; while as for Mr. Smalley,
he turned all his energies to the study of the noble
art, in order to escape his thoughts. The Champion
wrote to my lord that the temporary check Alas got
over, and that money might safely be laid on Cyrus ;
and my lord, in due course, replied that he was vastly
interested, as Mendoza was enthusiastic about Caleb ;
that all the amateurs, Corinthians, Fancy, what not,
were full of the coming struggle, which was now
definitely fixed for a proximate date. My lord had
been down to Brighton to look at Caleb Ann, and
was never more astonished in his life than at the
I)rogi'ess made. In a day or two he would tool his
tits to the North, and examine Cyrus, and then give
an opinion as to which was the better man.

True to his word, he started for Battle Magna ; but
did not tool his tits, for his wrists were shaky, his
eyesight defective, his constitution shattered. He

was growing so nervous through debility and a
constant succession of drams, that a slamming door
set his nerves twittering; and his royal master
began to see that the advice of Lady Hertford and
of the old love was sound, and that the crony would
have to be dropped ; for he was going the way
of Sheridan, who had fallen quite to pieces. Lord
Osmington sat on the coach-box in the horseyest
of coats and a bad temper, while the post-boys
cracked their whips. 'tip the mail the go-by!"
they cried. " My lord pays like a prince ! " And
away they galloped, regardless of their horses' wind.
But the exhilarating rush through the air failed to
revive his lordship. He reflected with wrath that
his vices sat heavily on him and ground him down.
At the idea of being left behind only for a week,
Prosing had screeched and kicked, and Augustine
(a new acquisition) had bellowed as if the house were
blazing; and he had only been able to quell the
hubbub by calling in Mr. Hamlet, the jeweller, and
distributing largesse. Those cormorants were never
satisfied; their maw was large, their greed bottomless;
no fortune could stand such a constant drain. One
might just as well be married as endure such slavery.
The Noah's Ark was becoming uninhabitable. Like
the Augean stable, it must be cleaned out with a big
broom. It should be swept forthwith, and the little
girl brought back and reinstated in her old position.

Yes. My lord resolved that the broom should be set
to T\'ork without dek}^, but shivered in his shoes at
the prospect of the squalling and caterwauling which
would accompany the operation. He would have to
retire into privacy until it was over. But suppose the
little girl remained obdurate ? She was such a
hoity-toity bit of goods that it was quite possible.
What then ? Why, he would drive her out of Battle
Magna, teach her what it was to be homeless and
destitute, and see if the sharp curb of hunger would
not tame the little shrew. Who should know women
and how to manage them if he did not, with his long
and varied experience ? Alas ! his experience went
to prove the contrary ; for the sex had always managed
him, and led him a weariful existence ; and,
moreover, this particular young lady was different
from all the rest, cast in another mould, which was
new to the worn-out sybarite, and therefore fascinating.
Besides, it was quite impossible to turn her
out, however provoking she might prove ; for was she
not the grandsire of Pentecost, his lordship's foster-mother
? When Lady Olivia died in giving birth to
Vere, had he not been tenderly nurtured by the housekeeper,
loved as her own child ? Had she not done

things for his sake which Well, there was no use

in referring to them, even in thought. For him, and
for his noble house, she had sacrificed herself, body
and soul ; it was no more possible to turn out Abi^^el

than it was to be harsh with Pentecost. Madam
Smalley would probably be very angry about that
silly affair at Wattier's; would revile my lord for
selling her niece to the Kegent ; would storm,
perhaps, and be abusive. It was well to put
that right by a personal interview; for, whatever
high-flown ideas Abigel might choose to nourish,
Madam Smalley was of the earth, earthy, and would
see at once that it was all a joke, which Miss
Eowe had resented as earnest. To please the old
woman and repay her in some sort for a life's devotion,
he had promised to make a lady of her niece.
Well, he was ready to fulfil the promise, if the
damsel would return. It was astonishing that Pentecost
should have remained silent on the subject. She
had never sent a line of reproach, which was curious.
Certainly it was well, for many reasons, that my lord
should overcome his aversion to the place, and pay
another visit to deserted Battle Magna ; for he had
things to say to Pentecost, warnings to give, which it
would not be prudent to commit to paper. It was
years now since he had been at the ancient manor-house,
and when he arrived there and realized its
condition of decrepitude, the state of semi-idiocy into
which the housekeeper had fallen, he marvelled
exceedingly.

In obedience to his patron's orders, Cyrus had
despatched the village carpenter and glazier to make

the library habitable ; but my lord declared that he
should die of the blues if he slept a single night in
the old ruin. How could he, who was so careful to
keep solitude at arm's-length, pass a whole evening
with a gibbering crone, and her contumelious grand-niece,
and an army of bats and mice ? It was as
much as his life was worth, with nerves so enfeebled.
No. He would do his business by day, and take up
his quarters at the inn. In the ingle-nook, with Cribbb
on one side and C^tus on the other, he might fancy
himself at Mother Butler's Sluiceryry. To make the
picture complete, Sherry was wanting, and the royal
princes. But Sherry had dropped out of the
coterie, and the Prince of Wales preferred Hertford
House now to the Salutation Tavern, and showed
signs of treating old pals to the cold shoulder. Ah,
well ! Disagreeable subjects are better tabooed. His
waning favour was another of the texts, concerning
which 'twould be better not to think.

The condition of Pentecost set him meditating.
At sight of him her blunted faculties rallied, but it
was evident from what people said that she stood
in need of a nurse. Would she, tormented by a
mind diseased, ever blab — let the cat out of the bag,
like Lady Macbeth ? Willingly, he knew she would
not. No more did Lady Macbeth. We are not told
what action was taken by the doctor and the gentlewoman
who overheard the disclosures of the queen.

When too weak to resist, did they stand over her
deathbed and bid her make confession? Did they
read tracts to her, improve the occasion ; or did they
mercifully leave her alone ? Lord Osmington was
certain that taciturn Pentecost would hold her tongue
as long as she retained power over it. She was
drinking herself into her grave. Would it be prudent
to set some one to keep the bottle out of reach ? Was
it inevitable that a nurse should be provided who, by
pouring brandy down her throat, would hasten the
inevitable denouement F What a pity he might not
smother her like a hydrophobia ! Perhaps, that being
impossible, it would be better to leave things as they
were. After all, it was bad health, weak nerves, that
conjured up bogey in Vere's mind. If he were welland
strong he would not fall so easy a victim ta
gloomy apprehensions. A nurse would of necessity have
ears, might amuse herself by pumping Madam Smalley.
A nurse would be a mistake, and might bring about
the very mischief which my lord was anxious to
prevent. But how about that inquisitive little Abigel ?
Was she not burrowing and worming in order to
find out something about the Jervois family, tiresome
little brown lump of curiosity ? When my lord
arrived, she avoided him as much as possible, went
about her affairs with set lips and tip tilted nose, gave
short answers, showed a lamentable want of courteous
breeding.

Silk purses may not be made out of sows' ears.
Abby was a malapert gipsy, a plebeian born under
a hedge, who, rubbing off the surface polish of a
polite education, took pleasure in being vulgar. She
was as rude as rude could be to my lord Osmington, in
his own house too. This new phase of her character
mortified him. To abide with this supercilious vixen
in Osmington House, while in an aggressive mood,
would be more gruesome even than to endure Rosin.
She would pour gall into his tea, spread wormwood on
his pepper sandwiches. Sure this change could not
have arisen out of that jest ? No ; as the swine return
to their wallowing — even the learned pig, unless kept
well in hand — so had the plebeian slut found the
refinements of high life to be irksome, and flung
them off with relief, like an ill-fitting garment. He
asked her formally to forgive the harmless joke at
which she had taken offence, and come back to her
snug boudoir ; to which polite request she had replied
by a sharp " No," like the rap of a dun on the door.

Pentecost, too, seemed averse to her going. *' It
has been tried," she said, during *an interval of mental
clearness, " and doesn't answer. It was very wrong
of my boy to treat her so, and yet, after all, you respected
her defenceless state. Knowing my deary —
as who but I should know him ? — this much was wonderful,
and done for the sake of poor old Pentecost ! '*
And with this the crone approached her palsied

VOL. n. 34

jaws to my lord's face, and wound her snakelike
fingers round his wrists, till his marrow froze at the
uncanny contact, and the blood seemed to curdle in
his veins. "Leave Abigel with me," she said, with a
tattered remnant of matronly authority, " and don't
vex yourself with phantoms of your own raising. The
Lord have mercy on my soul! I've given it freely
for you, and your father, whom I loved, and shall I reclaim
it now? "When that dreary mother of yours
went away — and a good riddance it was, for she vexed
US all to madness — your father and I made everything
shipshape. She wailed of that monument that Lord
Archibald, remorseful for cruel treatment of his
brother, set up to his memory. Haven't I told you
the tale often ? 'Twas passing strange that she should
have been right about the man whose name was graven
on it," continued the crone musingly. " When he
appeared at that library window methought it was
Lord Archly's wraith come to denounce me, so like
the man was to his grandfather. The same white
wavy hair and corpulence of body ; and then my ire
rose at my own foolishness, and I turned him hence
more roughly than was needful. How ill-clothed he
was, poor man ! The shoes scarce held together ashe
shrunk away, cursing me and you. He said he
would return, but never hath. Will he come back,
think you?"

** Pshaw! " replied my lord, chilled despite himself

by the crone's wild talk. " Cease this dismal whine.
He died in that strange den upon the wolds. No
doubt of that : I've seen his j^rave."

Crows' Liberties ! " shuddered Pentecost. " For
his sake I turn pale when I see a crow. His curse
is still hanging over us, my deary, and will fall.
Dead he may be, but he will return or send."

'' If you rave thus, you must be sent to the madhouse,"
my lord said sternly.

*' Me ! " the crone mumbled, with a spectral laugh.
'* Is my deary afraid of his old Pentecost. Have I
not said that I gave my soul for you ? What matters
his cry to Heaven, if I'm accursed akeady ? 'Tis for
you I fear, not myself. He visits me in sleep, and do
I call for assistance ? No. You think I've muffled all
this within my breast, until it's seared, to babble of
it to the universe ? Fear not ! My deary is not well ;
his hands, like mine, are aspen. Ah ! you young men
you young men ! " And then the old woman, with
a weird smile lurking at the corners of her mouth,
supported her chin upon her palms, and wagged her
head at the embers.

His foster-mother was staunch. Hot pincers
would not make her speak — of that Lord Osmington
was sure. She must have her way, and kill herself
in her own manner. Since she insisted on it,
Abigel must be left with the ancient lady, and my
lord would return to London comforted, his mind

at ease. But before he went it would be necessary
to warn Miss Eowe of the fate of mother Eve ; to expatiate
on the uselessness of pursuing a chimera ; even
put her on a wrong scent, if occasion offered. The
ostensible reason of his visit was to give an opinion
as to Cyrus. He made a parade, therefore, of accomplishing
his object conscientiously — examined the
points of the young bruiser knowingly, complimented
Cribbb upon his pupil's progress; but registered an
inward conviction that Caleb was the man to win.
Cy had the negative advantage of few mannerisms,
a happy knack of assimilating the excellences of other
heroes ; but there seemed to be an indecision about
his style which experienced Vere could not approve.
Caleb, though he had been trained in the ugly round-hand
fashion of the Hebrews, knew what he was about,
and amazed by his skilful refining. Cy's straight
blows were terrible when he succeeded in landing
them, but there was much left to be desired in the
Sprig of Myrtle by a real connoisseur. Cribbb was
blinded by prejudice, my lord decided privately ; his
swan was only a goose. Nathless, as Cyrus would
be useful as a spy, he received due encouragement
and promise of support. My lord suggested a little
longer training, a protracted residence in the healthy
Yorkshire air. The date being already fixed was
of no serious consequence. Another postponement
would add to the excitement of the Fancy. A few

weeks more, and the skin which looked too soft would
be more firm and set ? Perhaps Cyrus would be kind
though to order the coach to go up to the manor-house ?
My lord would start fi'om thence, having a trifle of
business to arrange with Pentecost before starting
London-wards. By-the-b}^ she had complained of
the neglect of her grandson. An upright youth
should honour his father and his mother, and if he has
neither, then his grandam. To be an enthusiast in
you" profession is very fine, but you ought to respect
your grandam. Cyrus promised that he would call at
the manor-house. How could he tell his patron of his
quarrel with Abigel, of her cold aversion, of the doubts
whereby he was tossed ? There had been no scenes,
for the cousins by tacit consent had avoided meeting.
They could not go on thus for ever. The ice must
be broken some day, and here was a convenient
opportunity.

Lord Osmington strolled from the inn through the
park, flicking weeds with a stick, as he rehearsed the
coming interview with Miss Eowe. She was a tartar,
there was no doubt of it, who, when provoked, could
make shocking speeches. She was just like a pussy.
If you rub a cat's fur in one direction, how she sings
and stretches languid paws — round puffs of velvet pile !
Sm-e so sugary a nature is made of unalloyed content.
Then if you rub in a contrary sense, how sudden and
<:*ompiete the change ! Mewing, spitting, smiting

with curved scimitars like razors. Lord Osmington
considered that Abigel had turned her ugly side with
very little provocation. She was worse than Eosina
or Augustine, in that they were open to bribery — for a
consideration would make themselves agreeable —
whereas Miss Kowe declined to be beguiled, to put off
frowns and sulks. A horrid girl, to have got rid of
whom was a matter for granulation ! Having made
up his mind as to this, my lord felt better. It is
easier for a man to speak openly to a stony and sulky
girl than to one whose bosom heaves, whose lashes
droop with April raindrops. He sauntered up the
terrace-steps, in at the open window of the library,
and strung his nerves for a tussle. There, in the
corner, was the Lady Olivia's chest which she had
rifled ; there, the great ebony cabinet — huge cumbrous
thing — that she would have ransacked, but for muscular
weakness » There, in a corner, was a little one,
with doors of lapis lazuli — a pretty piece of furniture,
small and portable. Yere had half a mind to carry
it with him up to town. Did it contain anything ? '
He had taken the precaution to bring the bunch of
keys. The quaint gold one must belong to this.
Letters. What a fancy the Northallerton family must
have had for treasuring letters ! A bundle from
Selina's sisters — rubbish. Stay, one or two blank
sheets, as yellow and time-stained as the rest. My
lord was struck with an idea. Pouring a few drops

of water from a caraffc into the inkstand, lie sat down
to write. " A capital notion," he murmured, with the
sinister glitter that made him look so ugly. *' Grub
among my family papers, will she ? " Having finished
a note to his satisfaction, he signed it " James
Jar vis," and popping it into the little cabinet, carefully
closed the doors, and rapped the table loudly,
bawling that ere he left for town he would bid farewell
to Abigel.

The small rustic serving-wench peeped in with awe,
and scuttled off, and presently Miss Eowe entered the
room and stood with arms folded and lips compressed.
Deplorable manners ! This young person — on whose
elegant accomplishments mints had been expended ;
who, when in amiable mood, could ravish with the
shawl dance, delight with tambourine or cymbals — had
not even the grace to say good-morning ! What a
drawback is a sulky temper ! Now Eosina, though

given to squalling and smashing teacups But for

the present there was no question of Eosina. Lord
Osmington bowed stiffly, and cleared his throat with
growing nervousness. There was fearless courage
looking out of those dark eyes. " I wished to see
you, Miss Eowe," he began with chill civility.

"Do you suppose I'd come of my own accord?"
interrupted the scowling one.

Vere was disconcerted, and began again : '' I requested
the honor* of an interview."

Requested ! " scoffed the maiden. " Request a
slave whom you have sold ! How kind ! "

Really, you are the crossest baggage," blurted out
my lord, losing self-command. *' If you wish me to
speak plain "

Thanks ; do, without rigmarole," drawled Abigel,
with imperturbable calm.

'then listen, and hold your tongue. I've spoilt
you to please your aunt, and you're of too coarse a
grit to bear spoiling with impunity. I've overlooked
your tantrums and sly trickery, for her sake ; but you
may tire even my indulgence. You're a low-bred
pauper without a sixpence, who, but for her who's
been a faithful servant, I'd fling into the gutter — your
proper place."

'too faithful a servant, I doubt!" the girl murmured,
with unflinching eyes.

Stuff and nonsense ! A prey to morbid fancy,
your mind's unhinged, and you fly off after a cloud-wreath.
Would you roast snow in a furnace ? or
catch the wind in a net ? or hold a mirror for moles ?
What you are doing is quite as futile. You have
dared to filch documents belonging to me."

You have dared," retorted Abigel, " to filch an
inheritance. James Christopher Jervois "

"That silly fable," laughed Vere, warming to his
work. ' ' Since you find it so entertaining, shall I tell
you the true story ? The last lord gave out that his

brother died in arms at Derby, to save the family
honour. The duel wherein he ^Yas said to have fired
too soon was a fiction, for the luckless James was
caught cheating at cards, had to be concealed, was
ultimately shipped to Virginia. It can be proved."

'* That is a He," returned Miss Kowe, quietly.
"Not content with stealing the dead man's inheritance,
you'd blast his character as well. Lady
Olivia knew otherwise."

Lady Olivia ! " ejaculated Vere. " My mother ? "

Here is her diary. Nay, you may have the book,
for I've read all that may be read of it — not much,
alack ! "

Abigel had won a trick, and her antagonist looked
foolish. " What does she say ? My poor mother
was half-witted," he growled, " and wist not what she
wrote. Ask Pentecost. What do you aim at ? Eaten
bread's forgot, of course ; but why should your ingratitude
take the form of injury ? "

I want to see a grievous wrong put right ! " cried
Abigel, with glowing cheeks. " I much fear that
great-aunt wrecked herself for him who was her
paramour. For the share she took in it the vengeance
of Heaven will fall on her and hers."

Pentecost's own words ! " And you, groping
blindly in the dark, are to sit in judgment ? Behave
me, more harm is done by well-intentioned meddling
than by deliberate crime. You are self-deceived. It

is to save old Pentecost from everlasting flames,
I suppose, that you display so feverish a desire to
ruin me ? Not so ! You blind yom-self. You've
fallen abjectly in love with a pair of blue eyes and
a flaxen head set with a halo of sham romance.
You've given your heart to an interesting young
scribbler of rhymes, and to win a pat from him
must needs don the armour of a stage heroine. It
is always love that's at bottom of all feminine mischief
and wrong-doing. With us it is a pastime;
with you, the object of your lives, for which you're
mad enough to scale walls and leap down chasms,
regardless of yourselves or others."

Miss Kowe was startled, and my lord pursued hi
advantage.

Why so violent an interest in the handsome boy ?
What is he to you unless you love him ? I've no
objection to your doing so. Let bygones be bygones.
Must we bring you together and make a match of
it ? To please old Pentecost, not you, I'll do that
much. Your secret can be read in your tell-tale face
but are you sure that he loves you in return ? He
always seemed to me more pleased with himself than
any other. A pretty fall for your stuck-up pride, my
lady, when you present him with a gift that he does
not want — your affection I mean — and not a coronet I
Not that I care one way or t'other. You may goto
the devil as you like. So long as you were pleasant

I was glad to have you, but that's over. Were I
spiteful I'd leave you to grub on, sloughing a rock,
making robes for Ashes. Let us suppose for a moment
that you're right — that the youth is a real Jervois.
Let us even put the extreme and impossible case of
your tracing his lineage. What then ? He will
graciously thank you for your trouble, and then,
Bon-jour. Dost think he'd marry you ? — you, a
penniless, friendless, gipsy waif with a bad temper,
sprung from the dunghill ? Pooh ! I know men,
if women puzzle me. The new-made earl would
stoop perhaps to make a mistress of you for a few
months, then pass you on to his valet. If you had
stopped under my wing, through my influence we
might have caught some one who really would have
married you ; but alone, unsupported — never ! At
Mrs. Fitzherbert's instance, the Regent spoke to me
about it, and I replied that your own fingers had
cut away your chance. I had said I was sorry for
the mishap, and you sulked. No more could be
expected of me to a peasant girl like you, so there
was an end of the matter. Once for all, do as you
choose. I shan't interfere any more. Eemember
only that by encouraging that young dreamer in
delusions you are building a wall between yourself
and him. He's going abroad with the Princess,
for years maybe, as she'll never return if idiot
enough to go. The Prince will see to that. Here

is the carriage, so I must be off. One parting word*
Write to me in town that you abandon this insane
nonsense, and that you want your doll. In the rearrangement
of the Princess's household it can be
arranged, I dare say, that he shall leave her service ;
and I'll even settle something on you both, provided
you retire somewhere with your aunt, who's more than
half imbecile, and cause no more bother. As for this
house, it shall be pulled down — no use in harbouring
rats."

Vere had risen splendidly to the occasion, and
held out a condescending hand; but perceiving how
agitated was his antagonist, he turned with a laugh
to go, and started on perceiving Cyrus leaning against
the wall.

*' Eavesdropping ! " he exclaimed.

No, my lord. I've just walked over, and, hearing
your voice, came to tell you that the coach is here."

Lord Osmington glanced at Abigel, and departed
satisfied. Her haughty demeanour had given place
to a look of terror and doubt, as with troubled brow
she gazed beyond him into space. The tension of
his lordship's nerves had been great during his
harangue. Repose was needed, so he got inside the
carriage instead of on the box, and murmuring, " I've
done it this time," curled himself cosily in a corner.

Miss Eowe stood like a statue, without motion, and
Cyrus waited in humble confusion to make his little

speech of contrition and crave pardon. But lie
remained so long staring out at nothing, that he
grew frightened, and advancing whispered, " Abigel ! "
She awoke at once from her trance, and crying,
Don't come near me ! " ran down the terrace steps,
across the bridge over the Fosse.

Cyrus stood irresolute, watching her flight. Was

she so furious at her cousin's slyness that she could

not remain in the same county ? Or was she gone

crazy ? She certainly was running like a madwoman

— past the ruined abbey, through the long

grass of the flat pleasaunce where the statues were

reflected in the ponds — and never slackened in pace

till her white figure was lost among the trees. Cyrus

scratched his pate, not knowing what to make of it.

What a flighty thing it was — always in extremes !.

Well, the run would do her good perhaps, just asa

preliminary scamper prepares a chafing steed for

obedience to the bit. The j)ugiHst had not been

guilty of eavesdropping, but was. so preoccupied with

what he should say to his cousin as not to have

perceived the impropriety of intruding on his lord's

interview. Yet where was the impropriety ? The

window was wide open, and Yere was talking loud.

One sentence he had caught by accident, and it came

as a revelation to the listener. Ever since the day

when the letters were burnt, Cy had been haunted

with a conviction that his patron was afraid of

Leoline — that the reckless, devil-may-care man of
power and wealth stood in dread of CaroHne's page.
So monstrous and astonishing a conclusion was
calculated to disturb a stronger intellect than Mr.
Smalley's, and the more he turned it over and over
in his thick head the less could he make up his mind
what his own conduct ought to be. If my lord was
so eager to destroy anything which spoke of the past
and might lead to the fixing of Leoline's parentage,
the latter must have, in my lord's opinion, some real
right to the title he professed to claim. " If it's his
own he ought to have it, and it was a rascally
proceeding to burn those documents." So argued
straightforward Cyrus, and then his poor breast
was torn and mangled. If he was right in supposing
that the nut-brown darling loved the claimant,
and was working tooth and nail to win the coronet
to share with him, was it not more than might be
demanded of human nature that Cy, who had views
of his own, should be expected to assist ?

He felt that, if he could be convinced as to the
rights of Jarvis, it would behove him at any rate to
abstain from opposition to his cousin's plans. But
my lord's words had drawn him out of a dim impenetrable
jungle into the glorious light of morning
had shown him how he could even help his cousin,
benefit Jarvis for her sake, and yet be himself the
gainer. "Was not that a beatific revelation for a poor

blundering, buffeting mortal? ''By encouraging the
young dreamer in delusions you are building a wall
between yourself and him," my lord had said. For
his own purpose he had spoken of delusions. "What
if they were not delusions, but hopes erected on a
truthful basis ? What if, by helping Abigel to prove
that Leoline was Earl of Northallerton, a bridgeless
breach could be made between the two ? Prove the
claim and you raise the claimant out of reach. That
was the invaluable hint. What a fool had Cyrus
been not to see that in his jealousy he had been
insulting his beloved ! She was not the woman —
certainly not — to raise Leo to a lofty place, and then
say, " See what a deed I've done. I've bought my
share in your honours. Out of gratitude you must
lift me and place me by your side." And if the
breach were dug, why should she not turn after a
while, as he had already promised himself, towards
an adoring if humble cousin ? He did not profess
such high-flown, self-sacrificing principles as hers ;
was perfectly ready to make a compact, whereby, in
exchange for assistance rendered, she would promise
to try and like him. To insist on sharing a coronet
you have won for another would be a base act.
There was no fear of proud Abby stooping so low.
Why should not her cousin take the hint his astute
lordship had unconsciously given him, and, coming
boldly forward, suggest a compact ? Would it bemean?

No. He would say to her, " See how devoted
I am to your service ; will leave no stone unturned
to please you, shrink from no sacrifice. Your self-appointed
task achieved, will you accept the devotion
of my life, the present of a true and loving heart ? "
In spite of Mr. Crib's arguments anent the danger
of ill-assorted marriages, Cyrus thought that Abigel
could be brought in time to like him, if Leoline could
be withdrawn from the field. Hence Cy gazed at the
fleeing maid with equanimity instead of unmitigated
despair, for he considered that her wild gipsy blood
would be cooled by contact with nature, and that,
when she came back by-and-by with soiled shoes
and petticoats thick with burrs, she would be too
exhausted to be energetic, and prepared to listen to
reason.

Chapter VIII.

A COMPACT.

As is often the case, it was a stray shot that brought
the quarry down. Through the first part of my lord's
discourse, Miss Eowe was swept by waves of rage
and indignation and defiance, in that she should be
accused of wishing to make Leo great and rich for
the purpose of sharing his possessions. There was
protesting wrath, but no relenting. Ashen, however,
Vere casually sketched a picture of the young man's
departure from England for an unknown term of
years, and offered to endeavour to prevent his going
that she might espouse the humble page, she felt
the great inward bound and thump which is vulgarly
described as your heart rising to your mouth. A
sudden flash seemed to reveal something hidden
away in the dimmest recess of her being of whose
existence she was ignorant, and the glimpse of its
shadowy shape filled her soul with tumult. This
phenomenon must be examined, pulled out of its
hole, turned over, probed, dissected — but not with
VOL. II. 35

any human creature by. The kindly service of the
knife might have to be summoned ; with steady
hand it might be necessary to cut and slash; and
the moans of the wounded thing, should they prove
irrepressible, must be heard by none, least of all by
that bad fellow Cyrus, who was so dastardly a traitor.
So the girl, like a wild fawn, sped swiftly over the
grass into the woods, and dropped down panting ina
favourite solitary spot curtained by tangled briars.
*she's going away — he's going away — for years and
years he's going away ! " The refrain boomed in her
brain like the tolling of a bell of death. He was
going beyond seas with his royal mistress, who would
never be permitted to return to England ; his fortunes
were bound with hers, and he was turning his back
on home. Once away, why should he ever return ?
Was he not homeless, friendless, but for the illustrious
lady who had attached him to her household ?
The Prince of Wales, my lord had said, would make
it his business to see that she never returned to
England. He would, no doubt.

Only a few days since. Miss Eowe had received
a letter of sixteen pages from her dear Charlotte,
detailing the horrors of her flight and recapture, the
wickedness and malignity of every one, the hollowness
of the world; and laying doleful stress upon her
mamma's unseemly glee at parting from her child
and husband. Leoline would go with the Princess,

ibr there were no ties to detain him in England ; he
would immerse himself in hooks at Brunswick or
Hanover; become a foreigner; the friends of childhood
would he forgotten. And why not ? My lord had
cogently inquired, what was the youth to her ? The
little mountebank who had dropped, hungry and
ragged, from the clouds was no blood relation — was
nothing to the girl at all. Why was he always in her
thoughts •? Why did he hold a conspicuous place in
her mental picture-gallery, any more than Joe
Hobday, the innkeeper's loutish son, or even cousin
Cyrus? The sisterly attitude was delusion. She
loved cousin Cyrus after a protecting superior fashion ;
and it was natural she should, for was he not the
offspring of her own mother's brother ? But if he
had been going away for a long terms of years she
would have wept, vowing that never never would
she forget his round honest visage, and in two or
three years at most he would have dwindled into a
cloudy vision, shapeless and devoid of colour. At
the prospect of his departure she would not have felt
that gi-eat tell-tale thump within. Had she been
deceiving herself all along, blinding herself wilfully,
prating of Fate and Destiny and perpetual maidenhood,
to conceal her artful selfishness? Fate's
shoulders must be broad and muscular to bear the
loads we pile on them. When we get into trouble
we always rail at Fate, although more often than notour

plight is the direct result of our own folly. With
the best intentions, how easily are we self-deceived !
With what smug confidence we run down the road
faster and faster, impelled by our own increasing
velocity, to marvel at the bottom of the hill at the
difference which exists between the goal attained and
the intended one. With profound self-upbraiding and
hot tears, Abigel drew forth out of her bosom the concealed
phenomenon with butterfly wings, and looked
at it with sidelong furtive glance. Lo ! it was Love ;
and, weeping bitterly, she asked herself however he
got there. Had she neglected sufficiently to guard her
virgin breast? Insidious wretch, to have nestled,
unperceived, so long ! And having made the terrible
discovery of his presence, what must the next move
be ? The basis of my lord's impeachment being just.
and real, his words smarted in her flesh like barbs ►
Could she be so base as, masquerading in Fate's robe,,
to have nourished this interest in Leoline for her
own ultimate behoof ? No ! That part of the indictment,
at least, was false and cruel. But it was.
a bitter thing Vere said about raising the youth to
pull him down again. The more successful proved
the quest, the further would Leo slip beyond her
reach. That was true. He liked her as a sister —
with no more warm affection. Perhaps, if Lord
Osmington settled a handsome allowance as a prize,
it might be worth his while to wed. Would he do-that

? Men are so venal ! But are not the happiest
marriages those wherein burning passion and subsequent
disillusion have had no part '? Abigel's London
experience taught her so ; for many loving turtle-doves
who had eloped to Gretna Green had cultivated
a permanent hatred afterwards. What if she gave
up the quest and accepted my lord's offer ? Beloved
Leo would be independent, instead of a waif living
on charity. She would be an attentive, affectionate
wife, make his home happy, be careful not to worry
him with mawkish endearments, and the pair would
in all probability go down to the grave with mutual
esteem and calm respect. But here, again, she was
arranging Leo's life with a view to her own ultimate
comfort ! What was she also but a waif who would
benefit equally by the arrangement ? And she had so
ardently longed to sacrifice herself! The temptation
was a hard one to resist, for Leoline cared little
for his misty rights. That was the provoking part of
it, which made Abigel quite testy. An ancestor who
had fought under the Standard in 1300 was naught to
him. Yet as a child he could talk of the Plantagenet.
That was parrot-jargon, caught from his mammy,
who, poor soul, had to feed on Plantagenetss sometimes
for lack of more substantial diet. If Abby had
been a man she would have tilted against wrong,
have combated hand to hand with the usurper, have
won her own at the sword point, have done miracles

rather than be crushed. But as matters stood, what
was the use of fighting for one who was so indifferent?
And then she chid herself ; for she had settled, before
buckling her armour on, that Leoline was to win
glory on a nobler field, while she did battle for the
humdrum fleshpots which would leave him free ta
work. And now a bad imp whispered in her ear wha
must have been sent by Satan, the patron of my
lord Osmington. " Free to work ! " the creature
said. "You are aiming, for his good, at something:
intangible, which you never will attain. Accept my
lord's offer. Unshackle him from Caroline. Provide
him with tea and muffins, and a honeysuckle bower,
and sufficient pocket-money to buy books and pen and
ink. Since he cares not for the title of his ancestors,
let it go. Make him humbly content — he who cracked
by the discordant elements of his environment."
No. A thousand times, no ! For, attached
to my lord's proposal was the condition that she
must be a part of the bargain. But having put her
shoulder to the wheel. Miss Kowe was not going to be
baulked of her purpose by false shame. She was
digging an unbridgeable abyss, was she ? Very well ;
so be it. It was part of the programme that, the goal
achieved, she was gracefully to withdraw. What she
might suffer mattered not. Save for this quest her
life was purposeless. Since sacrifice there must be,
it should be made. Plucking the dear phenomenon

out of her breast, she would tie him on the altar, fan
the coals, grill and roast him till he was quite dead.
It was evident that she was on the right track, or
m}' lord would not be so ready to settle the two waifs
in comfortable obscurity. The cinders of the phenomenon
should be shrine in the holy of holies,
never to be looked on by any eyes but hers ; be
cherished as a sacred relic of pain met and conquered.
The secret should be rigidly kept, temptation
be trampled. In the solitude of the woods the
dark and the white angels, whose special charge was
Miss Eowe, crossed their blades, and the white one
triumphed, while the maid for whom they struggled
cried and rocked herself. Victory was gained, but
blood lay thick upon the leaves. Oh, why are we
lorn, she moaned, to suffer so ? Wise men lecture
of a progressive development from a lower to a higher
life. That may be so, but with the progress comes
increase of power to feel. Better not to rise. While
we, creation's lords, are groping, tempest-tossed, sore
troubled, the lesser organisms go blithely about
their business, performing their small labours unoppressed
by doubt. The ant, knowing what is
expected of its puny strength, works out its simple
task. The province of the lark is to soar heavenward,
and carol far up in ether, to teach budding
songsters to sit in the fresh grass and tune their
throats to harmony. How preferable their calm and

gentle lot to ours, condemned to strive and strain
and toil ; bidden to choose the bitter, eschewing what
is sweet! And, slaves to passion, to impossible
yearnings; victims of abortive labour and promises
unfulfilled, we call ourselves lords of creation ! What
of the next development? "Will it be harder? will
the result achieved be even more ludicrously short
of the design ? If it is to be something higher, more
refined and nearer to God, will it be proportionately
fraught with difficulty ? People talk of the peace of
the grave — write on tombstones *^ After life's fitful
fever he sleeps well." If we could only be sure of
that, what a relief to many of us, in whom the shrinking
dread of leaping into we know not what is aggravated
by the possibility of its being something even
more troublous than existence here !

Musing somewhat in this wise, Abigel sat in the
woods all day, fretful and complaining, envying the
butterflies and birds, wishing to return to the pristine
condition of irresponsible vegetable or sea-anemone.
But the magnetic influence of teeming nature was
not to be resisted. Plants and lesser organisms seem
so glad in sunshine, that their happiness is contagious.
The humming of myriad insects, chirping of birds,
the gentle shimmer of the leaves, soothed the damsel's
ear ; while the fragrant smell of the earth, to which
she would return some day, ascended like incense
to her brain. Sure 'twas Nature's voice that spoke.

murmuring that, in good sooth, under the sod is
peace ! Towards evening she rose from a crouching
posture to her knees, and prayed to be shown the
right, and then moved slowly homeward, calmed and
comforted.

Cyrus, dio had watched her flight, became uneasy
as the hours passed. She must have been in a
dangerously explosive state, he considered, to require
so much cooling; hungry too, which would tend to
make her cross. Good-tempered as a rule, Cy knew
himself to be snappish when too long deprived of
food, and Abigel's temper at the best was short.
When he spied his cousin emerging slowly from the
wood, he put the kettle on to boil. The sight of a
cup of tea is always mollifying.

But she was not cross; did not stamp her little
foot and upbraid, as was her wont when Cyrus misbehaved.
She looked at him with a serene look of
indifference as, to conceal embarrassment and tremors,
he flapped the table-cloth and rattled the
spoons; gazed in his troubled eyes, and raised her
lip with a distracting cm'l, that told its tale of scorn.
She doesn't mean to quarrel — thinks me beneath
notice," thought poor Cy. This frigid contempt was
grievous chastisement. While she sipped the tea,
her cousin made wild and irrelevant remarks to break
the chilling silence that weighed him down like lead,
and, finding that she made no response, was goaded

by extreme desperation to seize the situation in his
hands, and pour forth the trouble of his heart. Why-did
she look in that way? He had done what he
conceived to be his duty, he stammered, in ]preventing
her from performing a wrong act (an eloquent sniff
from Abigel) ; for she had no more right to steal his
lordship's papers than to take his watch or handkerchief.
He had, therefore, to save her from being
tempted, loyally remitted them to my lord Osmington
a proceeding he would ever regret.

*regret!" echoed Abigel, abruptly, lasting down
her saucer. " Are you sorry to have been so loftily
virtuous, or because you gave me pain? And you
did hurt me terribly ; for it was low to spy in the
night, and deliberately betray my confidence. If I
had wished you to know what I was doing, I should
have searched by daylight. A nasty spiteful trick."

"I am sorry," pursued Cyrus, bent on clearing
himself, "because I've changed my views. I thought
the things were his ; now I don't think they were." ,

Abigel poured some tea into the saucer with steady
hand, and blew on it ; and remarked presently —

*' What is he to pay?"

Pay — who ? Do you suppose "

*' That you are to be paid handsomely for completing
your noble job as spy, for leading an ignorant
girl into snares. Yes, I regret that you force me to
suppose it. Till you took to the company of prize-fighters

you breve an honest lad. Disreputable, coarse
rascals ! "

'^AVho's disreputable?" flashed Cy. '^ Cribbb's
treated with respect by the highest in the land ! You
said yourself he was good company. But never mind
him now. Something happened in London, while I
was there, that made me change my mind. Can't
you believe it ? I've reason to think my lord's afraid
of Jarvis, which means there must be truth in these
reports."

Abigel had much ado to control herself. Was her
white angel to be rewarded for his prowess ? Was Cy
to turn accomplice, after all, and — unasked now — to
give his help ? If it might be ! But grievous past
experience counselled caution. What was it that
happened in London ? Cy told his story in his rambling
way, and Abigel listened with spalding eyes.
So the papers were gone for ever upon which the
Lady Olivia had set store. Deplorable as was that
calamity, it was good to know of my lord's eagerness
and covert fear. He must have made this pilgrimage
on pm-pose to reconnoitre. He had shut himself
up in a mouldy chamber with Pentecost, who wa
not pleasant society, and had whispered with her
over the fire as if working lengthy incantations,
*' Blood of bat, put in that," and so forth. Ergo,
Miss Abigel Eowe was on the right scent, and he had
come to see how the land lay and take precautions.

Mr. Smalley's cousin looked at him, scrutinized him
narrowly. There could be no doubt but that he was
speaking truth. And yet, did he not dislike Leoline ?
had he not always disliked him? What was his
object now in speaking with interest of that dear
youth? She put the question bluntly; and, in low
and tremulous accents, Cy proceeded to explain.

Don't think, Abby dear, that I would have given
you the smallest twinge if I could have helped it," he
whispered. "Sure you know me better than that?
Oh, Abby! have I not loved thee? and hast thou
not always been hard with me — not tolerant — though
knowing that stupid I may be, but that all that is
best in me I freely lay at thy feet ? You trample on
me, Abby; and yet, see, I'd rather have thy frowns
than the sweetest looks from others. Would I not
pour out my reddest blood to satisfy a whim of thine ?
What use — my God ! — what use ? What is my life to
thee ? "

Miss Piowe was stung by compunction. Perhaps,
indeed, she had judged her cousin harshly, but carefully
refrained from confessing as much. Even if
unable to return a passion, it is delightful to see a
strong nature wrestling within the toils. Why would
Cyrus persist in presenting his heart to her ? Why
was he so terribly in earnest ?

He had often told his love, but never with this
thrill in his voice; and she had always laughed it

off as commonplace gallantry. It would be wanting
in respect for a male cousin, who had been brought
up with a female ditto, not to declare that he adored
her; and yet it would be quite natural if, the next
minute, he were to propose to some one else. The
big hands of this great lumbering fellow were trembling,
despite their iron sinews ; and she looked down
at her own, like a brown bird in his strong grasp.
Those enormous males were skilful in the pummelling
of noses. The remembrance of that recalled her
to herself, and, withdi-awing her fingers gently, she
tapped him on the cheek.

** You are a silly old Blunderbore ! " she remarked.

"Give your life for a whim ! Is it worth so little?
Vague statements are easily made, and cost nothing.
Of course you'd give up your useless life, but not your

horrid profession ! "
Cyrus sighed deeply, and was silent.
You've not answered my question," persisted

Abigel. " Why this sudden interest in Leoline, of

whom you used to be so jealous ? "

"Have you thought," Cyrus asked abruptly, "that

my lord Northallerton cannot take to wife his servant's

niece ? "

Miss Eowe was enlightened, and stared at Cyrus,

wondering. He really was in sober earnest, and

thought he saw his way to shelving a dreaded rival.

He must have overheard my lord. Sure he could

not have evolved this brilliant piece of scheming out
of his own head ? " There is no talk of such a thing,"
she retorted, with impatience. "Cannot a body do a
generous act from a good motive ? "

The sun beamed forth from Cy's glad face, as he
rose and stood before his cousin. "Say it again,
Abby," he cried. " I feared you liked him, too much
ever to like me. If you may not be his, you'll not
wear the willow for his sake ? See how I love you ! "
he continued, falling on his knees in the gloaming,
and clasping the girl hungrily. " Till now I did not
know how much, I will help to trace out this claim
for him ; will be docile to you as a slave. I will give
up my future for your sake, though 'twill half break
Tom's heart — be seen within the ropes no more. Only
promise to be mine some day, my very own. I will
bide your own time, and be so patient ! "

The ardour of her suitor fairly took Abigel's breath
away. " Set me free — for shame ! " she cried, struggling
to disengage herself ; but the more she fought
the tighter did his embrace become.

Let be ! " he whispered, laying his head upon her
lap, and smiling up into her face. " Let be, and
promise. Then do with me as you will."

A procession of ideas danced swiftly through the
mind of Abigel, and she felt stunned by their mad
whirl. How singular was this ! A brief while ago
she was revolving the possibility of being united to

Leo, who cared not for her; consisting how by devotion
she would wind herself about his being, make
herself necessary to his life, by becoming a serf to his
caprice. That had been laid aside as unseemly, and
now the position was reversed. Cyrus was imploring
her to promise herself to him, vowing that his great
love was enough for both, that the strength of his
affection should in time compel a retmii — raise verdure
upon rocky soil. To please her he would even give
up the ring, turn his back on a cherished future
adorned with laurels, bright with fame. His love
must indeed be great ! His suggested withdrawal
from pugilism opened a new vista, for it was settled
that to espouse a professional bruiser was altogether
out of the question. She was sick of the tinselled
gewgaws of the empty world of fashion ; could look
forward to an obscure existence in a humble cottage ;
had, indeed, quite made up her mind, so soon as the
self-appointed task was done, to retire into meditative
obscurity. If so, why alone ? A few hours ago it
had come home to her that the notion of perpetual
maidenhood was a sham with which she had hoodwinked
herself. In her heart of hearts she knew
that she worshipped the blue eyes of Leoline ; but
the phenomenon had been tied upon the altar, was
grilling, steaming, and soon would be out of his
misery. Cyrus was a dear fellow admirable in many
ways — a rough gem that might be trimmed and

polished, made with care to sparkle, shine with
prisoned light. Madam Smalley was known to have
put by the savings of a long servitude. Why should
not the three remove some day to some remote part
of England, and start a new career ? Cyrus might
farm in a modest way ; she would look after the
dairy, supervise generally, see that grandcourt was
clean and comfortable. Madam Smalley would soon
be bedridden, unfit even nominally to take care of
Battle Magna. A change would have to be made.
Cyrus had set his heart upon the thing, and she might
do worse than let him have his way. Just once. For
in the future Miss Kowe would rule him with an iron
rod, and he from his own showing would submit
gladly to the charming despot. Poor Abigel wa
always building fancy edifices in which the dear ones
for the moment were to dwell. At one time castles,
now a cot ; and as she looked at it, with its wealth of
roses and marigolds and sweet-williams and jonquils,
its aspect found favour in her eyes. Marry Cyrus
now, of course she could not, and he knew better than
to ask her so to do. A task had to be accomplished
first — a difficult and uphill task. Was it wicked to
promise her hand to a man she did not love as a wife
should love her husband ? No. For Abigel felt sure
that if she chose she could make this simple fellow
very happy, which happiness being her own work
would be reflected back upon herself. There would

be self-sacrifice in this. Content in a humble sphere,
she could, as soon as the phenomenon had been well
grilled, follow from a distance the successful career of
the great Lord Northallerton, with a proud remembrance
of her own share in his greatness. A rich
earl and an immortal poet ! With what delight would
she send to town from her retreat for his last work,
and drink in the noble thoughts set in golden rhythm !
As usual. Miss Eowe leapt across the intervening
chasm to the goal, forgetting for the moment that to
reach it a weary journey must be undertaken, down
one precipice, across a rocky vale, and then a painful
climbing up the other cliff.

She sat back with hands intertwined behind her
head, gazing dreamily out at the darkling woods, the
straight lines of purple cloud against the amber sky,
the pale faint crescent of the rising moon ; and Cy
remained quiet, his head pillowed on her lap, content
to wait thus for ever while she made up her mind.
On his side the promise had been given, the forfeit
made of his career. He was sorry to think of Cribbb's
disappointment ; a little nettled at the thought of the
sneers which would be cast at him by baulked Corinthians.
Thank Heaven, their malice could say naught
against his honour. What were such trifling annoyances
in the sanctified presence of his great oblation ?
To stem the current of your life, deliberately to turn it
from a sunny course into the shade, requires so mighty
VOL. II. 3G

an effort that its accomplishment brings with it a
sense of fatigue which calls for tranquillity and rest.
Cyrus knew well that for a long while he would grieve
and fret ; that the sight of the Morning Herald, with
its long accounts of the doings at the Fives-courts
and Moulsey, would be a stab. But he would get over
that in time. And then, to spend the remainder of
his earthly span with Abigel, to clasp her as he
clasped her now, was not that worth a heavy payment
? He felt that she would not refuse, that the
force of his love would master her will ; so he was not
surprised, though his heart welled with exulting joy,
when, after a long time, when it was quite dark, she
laid her hand upon his head, and stooping, kissed his
hair. Gently she disengaged his fingers, and whispering,
" Leave me alone to think," floated out of the
chamber, and locked herself within her own.

How elastic was the turf beneath Cy's feet, how pure
the vault overhead, how bright the stars, as one by
one they twinkled forth to congratulate him on his
victory ! Never had the green pleasaunce appeared
so calmly fair, the verdant amphitheatre so rich and
varied, as now in the summer night. She had not
promised in words, but that kiss was enough. She
would be his some day — his own darling little wife —
his Abigel ! What was he to be so blest ? True, he
had never done aught of which to be ashamed ; but
hitherto his virtues had been negative. If his nest

was lowly he had kept it clean ; and, please God, he
would do so to the end. With a brisk tread and
hearing countenance he strode across the park,
whistling softly as he went, and stood in the presence
of his preceptor, a vision of happiness.

Mr. Cribbb stared, shook out the ashes of his pipe,
refilled and lit it, waiting for an explanation of his
pupil's joy.

** She's accepted me ! " cried Cyrus, wringing his
friend's hand.

The devil, she has ! " ejaculated Tom, by no
means inclined to be hilarious. *' What rum critters,
to be sure ! " he pursued reflectively. " Now, I'd have
wagered anything that she'd rather die than take one
of our cloth. Not but what she took to it amazingly
when she used to come here cooking. But a passing
fancy's one thing, and a life-long interest's another.
Well, horror, I say, and may the olive-branches
sow like a forest ! They are rum critters, surely !
Might as well expect 'em to be consistent as ask a
Highlander for a knee buckle ! Good luck, my lad !
You'll have courage now to go in and lick the Pink."

Cy's face fell a little. It was painful, in the midst
of his own joy and the other's hearty sympathy, to be
obliged to disappoint his friend.

''I can't fight the Pink. That's off ! " he said.

What ! " shouted Cribbb, dropping his pipe in
consternation. "Not fight the You must;

after all that's bin said, and the heavy bets and
all, you must, my chap. There's no getting out
of it ! "

*why?" asked Cyrus. "I've beat him once. I
can refuse to fight without dishonour. Specially as
I've decided to leave the prize-ring."

Cribbb was too angry to trust his tongue. Oh 1
these critters ! Anarchists ! iconoclasts ! That she
should actually have coaxed and wheedled his favourite,
to whom he had so hoped some day to abandon the
belt, to leave the profession ! It was flying in the
face of Providence — it was ! All men are endowed
with special talents which they should cultivate as
highly as they can. Cyrus had been given males,
a quick eye, agile limbs, etc., and he was going—
to gratify a bit of a brown slut, who wasn't worth
his little finger — to turn his gifts from their proper
use. He was ungrateful too, desperately wicked, and
would be punished. Had he, Mr. Cribbb, so little todo
that he could afford to waste his time, squander
his attention, upon a fellow with no bowels ? He
had no bowels — that he hadn't — or he would show
compassion for a well-tried and constant friend, and
come up to the scratch, and, for the honour of the
Bristol school, drub that Pink of Bow. He, Mr.
Cribbb, had laid his own private money on Cyrus, and
meant to win his stakes. Sure Smalley would not be
such an egoist as to Here the Champion's voice

broke clown, and the hero of a hundred fights was
fain to brush a manley over his moist optics.

This was harrowing. That Cribbb would be disappointed
Cyrus knew, but that he should take it thus to
heart was a blow and at the same time a compliment.

My dear old man," he said affectionately, *' if it's
for my happiness, you should be glad."

"What will my lord say?" demanded the irate
Champion.

Cyrus looked grave. For obvious reasons my
lord must be kept in the dark as to Cy's motives for
abandoning the ring. Cy could not tell Tom that my
lord was wilfully usurping another man's possessions.
It was all-important that Vere should be kept in the
dark as to an alliance between Abigel and Cyrus.
The young man sat himself down, therefore, and
calling for heavy wet (Cribbb growled, " Heavy wet
for a pugiHst in training ! "), lectured his friend upon
the subject. The ultimate result he had at heart
rubbed up his wits, and he succeeded, after much
argumentative hammering, in winning the Champion
to his side. It was impossible to give reasons for his
course of action. Cribbb should know them some day.
The Champion must show that he really cared for his
favourite by helping him with blind faith in this
delicate matter.

Cribbb hung back, was hard to convince ; for, being
a plain, straightforward person, he had an antipathy

for secrets. " Well ! " he sighed at last, perceiving
that it was hopeless to argue with a man in love,
"I'll do your bidding, lad, though I wish she wa
somewhere for what she's done. I won't ask if it's,
all square and honourable, for you wouldn't do anything
that wasn't ; I know that. And don't ask me
to tell no lies, for they're not in my line neither
That being understood, peg away."

And so it was arranged that Cribbb should return
to town in a day or two with Cyrus; that the latter
should take the occasion of the first benefit at the
Fives-courts to get up on the platform and publicly
declare that he intended to fight no more.

"Except with the gloves," suggested Cribbb.

Not even with the gloves, old mate ! 'Tis bad to-make
two bites of a cherry. Meanwhile we'll concoct
a letter to the Pugilistic Club, stating that the affair
with Caleb's off for good and all. And under no
circumstances, mind, will you breathe a word to any
living soul, as to Miss Eowe's share of the business."

CHAPTEK IX.

ABIGEL AND CYRUS DIG.

To enjoy the complete confidence of the nut-brown
maid, to sit beside her in the quiet woods, so close
that her breath mingled with his, went far to reconcile
Cyrus to his abdication of a prospective niche in
the Walhalla of fistic fame. There was nothing to
mar the sweetness of those jocund hours. She appeared
to enjoy the tete-astute as much as he, and the
subject round which her talk revolved was not distasteful
to her coadjutor, for the harder she and her
new hodman were prepared to work the sooner that
wall would be erected ; while as for the futile, Cribbb
had declared with emotion that, being childless, Cy
should be his heir — should have all that the Champion
had from time to time deposited in hidden stockings
whensoever he might elect to ask for it.

Abigel went over with her cousin — slowly and frequently,
that it might be absorbed through his dense
cranium — all she had picked up with regard to the
Northallertons : and in the course of demonstration

(as is frequently the case) other ideas sprang into
being, new combinations formed themselves which
deserved to be thoroughly discussed. However much
we may puzzle our heads in thinking out a subject in
solitude, it is surprising how much more clearly its
details stand forth when we explain it to some one
else. There was nothing more to be made of Lady
Olivia's diary. Vere, her son, had declared she was
half-witted. Her own journal seemed to show that
she was of a morbidly sensitive turn ; that she suspected
that the search for James Christopher's offspring had
been conducted in a perfunctory manner for form's
sake. Judging from what she had written, it was
probable that her deathbed prayer to her husband had
been that he (George, second Lord Osmington) would
institute so thorough an investigation as to settle the
question; she being mastered by a conviction that
a curse followed a usurper, which was sure, sooner or
later, to run down him and his. Pentecost knew all
about that interview, of course, but as certainly
would decline to speak. Taciturn always, the crone
had even ceased to mumble since Vere's departure —
had riveted her lips together, to be unscrewed by no
medium except ardent spirits. What did Cyrus
think of making his granny drunk, and then belabouring
her with cunning queries ? Cyrus laughed consumedly
at the dare-devil recklessness of the naive
little conspirator, who seemed resolved to stick at

nothing, to throw scruples to the wads. It was an
amusing conceit, but perfectly unpractical. So
seasoned a toper could not he made drunk. Why,
whiskey ran in her veins instead of blood ! Spirits
would in time corrode the coats of her stomach, if
they were not already gone ; but as to inducing the
crone to blab by means of an overdose of liquor, the
idea was worthy of a maiden's innocence. It was
hard to have a clue, the chief one, under your hand
and be unable to use it. Pentecost knew also about
the worn man who had appeared and vanished. Who
could he have been, and what was his name ? It
would not have been James Christopher himself, for
from what Abigel's own mother had related, the
mysterious fat person with white hair and world-worn
visage had appeared about the year 1790. At that
date the original fugitive, if still alive, would have
counted seventy years, whereas the fat man seemed
to be about forty years old, she, Abigel's mother,
having been struck by the fact that his hair was prematurely
white, and that his visage was lined by care
rather than by age ; for though the furrows were
deep, the skin was fresh and pink. It must have
been that son, then, who was supposed to have died
of smallpox.

Of course it could not have been James Christopher,"
remarked Cy, with unaccustomed acumen.
Though they were content to be careless over the

children, they would have been bound to be sure of
James's death before Lady Selina could inherit the
property. Stray low-born children might die or disappear,
and be carelessly accounted for. But James,
we know, was made factor, held a farm in a known
district on the borders of Tipperary. You may be
certain his death was proved."

Yes," returned Miss Kowe. " Lady Olivia states
distinctly in her diary that all possible search was made
in Ireland before Selina inherited. That son, then,
migrated probably to England, in some mean capacity.
It would be useless to look up wills in Doctors*
Commons; paupers have nothing to leave. If we
could only discover where he lived ! "

First you have to know what was his name. Ah !
his name ! " cried Cyrus, starting up as if he had
been shot, tearing at his hair and grinding his teeth,
distracted.

What is the matter 7 " inquired Abigel, alarmed
at the consternation depicted on the other's face.

Oh, what a fool and dolt I was ! " Cy wailed. *' I
see now why my lord burnt those letters. One of

them contained the name I read it in yonder

library whilst thou wert sleeping. The name ! It
was '*

What ? Oh, do remember ! " besought Abigel.

"I cannot," moaned Cy, sinking back by her side
among the leaves, his chin sunk on his breast. " I

didn't know it signified. How should I ? But I should
recognize it if I saw it, that I'll swear."

And much use that would he ! " retorted the girl,
sharply. " Oh, Cy ! think what you've done. The
Lady Olivia was coerced hy her lord and his paramour
; she could not search properly, without her hus-hand's
concurrence, and so she placed the letter, not
in her own chest, hut in another receptacle, lest other
traces of that name should carefully he sponged out,
prophetically seeing us perhaps delving at this
mystery. No wonder Lord Osmington was eager!
For without that name we are powerless. If we had
it we might discover where he lived, examine his
dwelling, the neighbouring church, and so pick up
the links ! It is checkmate, my cousin, and through
you."

Miss Eowe concluded mournfully, and her words
fell upon the unhappy Cyrus like a death sentence.
If he had guessed that his happiness was to hang
upon those shreds of yellow paper, would he have
kept them back? "No! " he thought with pride;
'not if I considered that they were his property.
Much happiness I should have if I knew myself a
robber." But the result was no less soul-distracting.
"We must not despair," he cried. "How can we
tell that all other traces were destroyed ? We must
inquire high and low of all the old people."

It is already done," said Abigel, in the dumps.

All ? There's old Kimpton now, the blacksmith.
He must be sixty at least, [and has heard all the
gossip of the neighbourhood since he was a boy. Do
they not gather round the forge like bees in winter
for the heat, on their way to and from Ripon market ?
They've always done so — their fathers and mothers
before 'em. Don't you recall how, as children, we
used to laugh when he grew testy with the cackle, and
roared, * Now, lads and lasses, make way, make way,
unless you want to be shod with iron ' ? "

No ; I never thought of him," admitted Abigel.
*' He's grumpy, and his tongue's rough."

Never heed that. We'll go down this very evening,
for no man likes a gossip more than he when
the work's done. Besides, he's proud of me and the
fine things that have been said in the papers — pleased
for the honour of the village, he says."

Cyrus sighed to think that was all over, and his
cousin felt a second twinge of compunction in that
she had accepted the offering. Was it not very
selfish? For Leoline's sake she could immolate
herself and others.

Let us have it quite clear before we speak to
him," pursued Cyrus. " We have to ask the old
fellow to tax his memory as to what ? — whether the
name of James Christopher's lad who died of smallpox
was ever bandied in the village ? Surely it was.
For on the alehouse bench and in the ingle-nook

be sure the village Solomon sifted the subject
thoroughly."

That is it," acquiesced Abigel. '' Leoline's father
Twas called Hans Jarvis. A common soldier, he
fought under Lord Lake in the Irish rebellion, and
was killed at Vinegar Hill, leaving a widow, Naomi.
She perished of misery and want. All that is known.
I have the marriage lines that were brought by the
child to my lord ; have always asked myself why he
was so indifferent about them ; but that is clear now.
The chain being broken higher up beyond repair, this
certificate is worth nothing. Hans was grandson to
the fugitive James Christopher ; I'm certain of it ;
the dates would fit exactly. If only we had the name
of Hans' father — who, no doubt, was that white-haired
man ! If you could remember "

^' Come," said Cyrus, " we will go down at once.
It win be strange if no one Mows."

Not a soul in the almshouse does ! " returned
Abigel. But she got up and followed her cousin notwithstanding,
though she deemed the chances slight
that the blacksmith should know more than the hags.

So it was the Christian name, ruminated Cy as he
strode along, of the fugitive's son written therein
that had caused my lord to display such eagerness
in burning the letter to Archibald. The guileless
pugilist had bestowed no attention on it beyond
mastering the general theme of its contents. That

there was a name mentioned he remembered clearly
now, and racked his brains to recall it. Christian
names are numberless ; yet lie was convinced that out
of a list he could select this one if he saw it. Was
it peculiar ? No ; or it would have struck his fancy.
John — Joseph — Ralph ? Alas ! It was quite wiped
out, and, without some hint, was not likely to return.
The iron was clinking merrily when the cousins
reached the forge, and Mr. Kimpton greeted Cyrus
with a familiar nod, Miss Kowe with a touch of an
imaginary forelock. Like every one else about the
place, he was unable to fix the social status of Miss
Eowe. At one moment she was heard of as bosom
friend of a royal princess; at another appeared
dressed with studied simplicity, vowing that she was
a daughter of the people. At any rate, she was a
shrewd girl — no doubt of that — and had changed her
role with some crafty and deep intention. Therefore
it was that, although she was constantly repudiating
any connection with the fashionable world, the good
folks of Stratton-on-the-Fosse wagged their jaws and
put two and two together. Did not they all know
that the niece of the old harridan who had been the
mistress of the late lord had suddenly been taken
up by the present one — clad in smart array, educated,
polished ; had lived at Osmington House and
ruled the roast there ? And then, all of a sudden,
she came home and shook from her feet the dust of

the metropolis. It was as plain as a pikestaff. The
cunning lass was ambitious : more particular than
great-aunt, she insisted on a ring. And my lord,
who never came near the place, actually followed
her. It was as well to be civil to Miss Eowe, for she
would bloom out directly as my Lady Bountiful,
Countess of Osmington — make herself generally useful
in the matter of flannel and blankets. Thus, after
the usual manner of rustic wiseacres, did the inhabitants
of Stratton-on-the-Fosse know other people's
business better than themselves, and sapiently arrange
their motives and intentions. The hags in the
almshouse were wiser than the rest. Why all these
inquiries about the Jervoises, unless it was that
young madam proposed to enter the family that now
held the acres ? And truly she was prudent to make
a fuss over that ring, for deserted old Pentecost was
a rueful example of neglected opportunities. If, upon
Olivia's death, she had insisted upon going to church,
and so on and so forth — a pyramid of ifs. Sturdy
old Kimpton was of the same opinion as the hags,
and was no little taken aback when Cyrus took him
into confidence. While the old man hammered, he
sat upon a table, swinging his legs, and began to
prattle of London and its doings. Did Mr. Kimpton
remember his quondam 'prentice, who had been
spirited away by the Princess of Wales ?

Whom God less, poor martyr ! " growled the

blacksmith. Of course he remembered his 'prentice,
and hoped he was happy. A fine lad — one of the
old stock, no doubt of it; about as fit to hammer
horse-shoes as to be a steeple jack. Her Royal Highness
had quite forgotten to remit the money for the
quashing of the 'apprenticeship. But, there ! what did
that signify ? He would not stand in the boy's light,
not he ; and if he were doing well, was satisfied.

"So he holds a tender ]place in your memory?"
cried impulsive Abigel. " Oh, Cy, let's tell him."

The blacksmith glanced with surprise at the girl's
flushed face, then turned to Cy for information.

You'd do him a good turn ? " the latter asked.

*' That would I," quoth the blacksmith.

Then Cyrus explained to Mr. Kimpton that the
delicate youth was probably the true Northallerton,
that the cousins had set themselves to unravel the
skein of his parentage, and that he (Mr. Kimpton)
might be of signal service.

Then Miss Eowe is not to be Lady Osmington ? '*
the blacksmith exclaimed, scratching his close-cropped
poll.

Certainly not," laughed Cy, " since she is to be
Madam Smalley."

Could it be possible ! The clever fabric, raised by
the Stratton worthies, was mirage. Who would have
thought it ? Wonders will never cease, so long as
the planet rolls.

Lord Osmington threatened you, I think," observed
Cy, "when you gave the prisoner his liberty? "

Much I care for him ! " snorted the other. ** And
much he's beloved in these parts — leaving things to
go to rack and ruin, doing nothing for the poor, not
so much as a bit of firing at Christmas; for if the
trees fall, 'tis to pay for his lordship's gambling, not
to keep his tenants. I tell you what, young man and
miss, maybe you're astray, angell never work out this
thing ; but, if you do, the blessings of the county will
be on you. The Jervoises were good landlords always;
not so the Islington. The first was a bad lot, the
second was worse, the third is worst of all. 'Twould
be a great day for every living creature in the place if
the Jervoises could be brought back again ! "

The old gentleman was so disturbed by the new
complexion of affairs, that he was for rallying at once
a circle of the elect, in order that over a mug of stingo
they might discuss the wondrous news. No doubt
they would all look solemn over their pipes, and
declare that they knew all about it, had thought so all
along, had only been astonished that steps had not
earlier been taken, etc.

But Abigel, prudent for once, plucked the old fellow
by his apron, and then and there swore him to
secrecy. *' You said you'd do him a good turn," she
remarked demurely ; " and that is not to be done by
letting cats out of bags before their time. What we
VOL. II. 37

claim of you now is, that you will search your memory
and tell us all you know about the defunct Northallertonss
and Islington."

Alas ! Mr. Kimpton could tell little. Holding his
head tight, as if fearful it would fly away, he wrinkled
up his brow, and grunted many times. Minerva,
armed cap-a-pie, did not spring from his skull, though
the throes to produce something thence were quite
as painful as Jove's must have been. Abigel sat
patiently, her hands clasped together, hoping that
something of importance would ooze out presently.
The night came down as she sat, the stars shone
forth ; still the mountain was in labour, and could
not produce even a mousekin.

Mr. Kimpton looked up beaming. He really did
remember something. Oh ! what was it ? He remembered
being sent for to the manor-house years
ago, to mend a door-hinge. While working on it the
door closed, leaving him in a recess, caused by the
thickness of the wall. My lord was sitting in a great
chair by a window, too ill to notice his presence ; was
half asleep, when a ragged little boy came up, and
presented a paper.

Is that all ? " cried Abigel. "I was a witness of
that scene myself from under the yew hedge."

Ah ! " grunted the blacksmith, " that's nice, for it
shows I'm telling no lies. Then he gave the child to his
body-servant's care, and sent for Madam Pentecost."

*' Indeed ! " cried Abigel. "I didn't know that;
for when the child was taken to the kitchen, I crept
there too, to comfort him."

Yes. He sent for Madam Pentecost, and showed
her the paper."

I have it safe ! " cried Abigel.

*mrs. Smalley tossed it down, declaring with scorn
that it was of no importance, since the chain was
broke beyond power of man to mend. Then they
whispered, and I could not catch all ; besides, it
didn't concern me. And yet it did seem cruel that,
if the little chap was really what he said, my lord
shouldn't be more kind. If the chain was broke,
there was no need to be afraid of him. Then they
said summit about a man who had been round a
long while before

*' Corpulent, with silvery hair," panted the girl.
*' What of him ? Did they mention his name ? "

*' Yes. They called him by a name, I think."

'' What was it ? " cried both cousins in a breath.

*how should I know," grumbled the blacksmith,
*' after all these years? Didn't take much note of
it then."

Abigel sat back on the settle, which she had drawn
close to the old man, and moaned aloud. Was ever
anything so tantalizing as this ? To be always just
on the point of touching that name upon which so
much depended, then to be baulked.

'soh do, dear Mr. Kimpton!" she wailed. "Dodo
remember ! "

"Don't I say I can't'* snapped the blacksmith.
There was reproach in the girl's voice as if he were
to blame. Since she was not to be my lady, but the
humble wife of Madam Smalley's grandson, there
was no need to be respectful. So the good fellow
turned upon Miss Kowe, and said that if she wasn't
pleased she might go home. As for him, he couldn't
see what a parcel of young idlers wanted, wasting his
time. What a pother about a name ! It was the
same, likely, as the one on the monument, or
perhaps another. How should he know ? Anyways,
Madam Smalley said it was all right.

The monument ! What monument ? Lady Olivia
had written about a monument. Mr. Kimpton must
not be so cross with an anxious girl. Abigel begged
his pardon for being hasty. Would he be so forgiving
as to say what monument ?

Well then, since she apologized, grumbled the
old gentleman, he would tell her that between the
south windows of the village church, just over
the family pew, Archibald, last earl, had caused a
tablet to be erected in memory of his unfortunate
brother, the Irish James Christopher Jervois, saying
at the time that, since he could not be with his family
in life, he should linger overhead in death. This-tablet,
village gossips used to whisper, was always a

bugbear to the half-demented Lady Olivia, for it
mentioned the ^Yife and son of the unfortunate one —
the brat who, as it ^Yas understood, had died a child.
'well," the blacksmith explained, *the demented
Lady Ohvia, poor thing, took fads into her cracked
head, and never could look at that monument — always
turned her back to it, for she was a queer party,
surely; and when she died, out of kindness to her
ghost, I suppose, my lord took it down, and made
some alterations hi the church. It reminded him of
her, he said, and made him wretched ; which was
queerer than all, for he soon consoled himself with
Madam Pentecost, and neither of 'em troubled church
much."

Abigel was lost in thought, for she could piece
the puzzle together now. Lady Olivia, oppressed by
a presentiment that the child was alive, could not
bear to look upon the tablet, and had on her deathbed
implored my lord to seek the person named thereon ;
and my lord, taking the hint, had, ere she was cold,
destroyed the monumental slab. Thus was the chain
riven, doubtless.

'did you never hear what became of it?" she
asked idly. Of course my lord had broken or
buried it.

My lord, I mind, pulled down a wall, and added
some ornaments, and so there wasn't room for the
monument. Maybe that was why it disappeared."

'* Tell US," suggested Cy, "when you were mending
the hinge that time, didn't you catch anything about
the whitewashed man ? Didn't grandam "

** Yes ; I remember her telling my lord that he
had said he would return."

From whence?"

How should I recall ? "

She knows then, sure enough ! " murmured
Abigel. " Oh, if we could but wring the words from
her sealed lips ! "

Yes ; I mind that she said he would come back
to the place where she saw him first, and then she
pointed at the very spot by the window where my lord
was sitting. I saw her finger through the chink."

I wonder if he ever did return ? "

I never heard. Ah, well. There's a longer yarn
than I've spun this many a day. So good night. I'm
dry. If so be as you find out anything, I'd like to
know; for the lad was a good lad, and 'twould be prime
to get out of the claws of the Islington. I'm a
bit cranky and short like, but can be trusted. Old
Tom Kimpton's made of as true steel as Kipon
rowels."

Cy, much depressed, escorted his cousin back to-the
manor-house. To think that the missing name
might have been forthcoming but for him ! Neither
spoke , till they reached the crumbling terrace.
There Abigel placed her hand in his, and said—

That stone must be found, Cyrus. It is our only
chance. Leoline must come himself and help."

And as he walked back to the inn across the i^ark,
Cy repeated, " It must be found, or all my hopes are
blasted. I don't see, though, why lie should come
here — damn him ! " Whereby you will perceive that
Cy was distressed by a covert fear of Leoline akin to
my lord's, and was firmly fixed in his resolve that,
if he could help it, Leoline and Abigel should never
be man and wife.

Chapter X.

THEY CONSULT THE HAGS.

It was late in the afternoon of a day in early autumn
when the guard of the Leeds coach too-toned his way
into the Ripon market-place with Mr. Jarvis by his
side. He knew nothing of Northallertons or Jervoises
not he. All that signified to him was that the
journey had been accomplished satisfactorily, and
that the buxom hostess of the Unicorn was smiling
a welcome at the door. '* A stranger in these parts,
sir ? " he inquired with a sidelong glance at the
aristocratic-looking young man, who seemed so
subdued. *' Best inn for miles around, the Union.
Hi ! Mrs. Daffy. Here's a slap-up young gent from
Lunnon come to explore the neighbourhood." Oh,
indeed! It would repay the trouble. Would the
gentleman from London take some dinner, and a
glass of sherry wine whilst waiting for it ? He should
have the best bedroom in the bow window over the
archway, and boots should transport his effects
thither in a trice, if the' gent would deign to point
them out.

Leo smiled at the obsequious and curtsying
hostess and held out his hand. " Don't you know
me ? " he said. " Tom Kimpton's little apprentice
was beneath your notice."

Mrs. Daffy stared, and slowly ejaculated, " Law ! "
All Ripon was, of course, acquainted with the
romance of Stratton-on-the-Fosse. Tourists and
commercial gentlemen had been frequently regaled
with the fau'y-tale of how the poor Princess of Wales,
for whom everybody was so grieved, had dropped from
the sky like an elfin godmother, and popped into a
chariot made out of a pumpkin the beggar-brat whom
my lord had bound to the blacksmith. Six years
had passed since then ; the 'prentice had developed
into a tall youth, whose handsome clothes became
him well. He had quite the hel air — a highbred,
gentlemanly manner that went at once to the heart
of Mrs. Daffy. 'well, you are changed!" she
said. " They may say what they like, these Bur-debts
and democracy men as are always making
trouble, but there is something polishing like in
contact with the great. And the poor blessed
Princess, how is she ? You shall have the best bedroom,
Mr. Jarvis, and do it honour," she cackled on,
while fussing up the stay's, "though very humble to
the palace you're used to."

Leoline thought of " Trou Madame " and the
Comus crew, and laughed. The emery powder of

royalty had bestowed but little polish on the
Sapios.

He declined to give reasons for his coming, produced
a sketchbook, dallied with a box of colours,
asked questions over his repast about picturesque
points of scenery, and, dinner over, put on his hat
to enjoy an evening stroll. In obedience to his old
playmate's entreaty, he had put himself in the coach
and travelled northward, feeling sure that it was
only to admire some mare's-nest, to assist at the
opening of an addled egg. But what of that ? He
was going away soon, and the temptation to see dear
Abby once again was not to be resisted. To him,
who was so fond of nature — for whom each flower
and moss-bank had a prattling legend — it was a
pleasure always to escape from town ; and now that
he was to turn his back on motherland, no opportunity
of drinking in the greenness of old England
was to be neglected. The summons had been
mysteriously worded. He was to let nobody in
London know of his coming. What could the girl
have discovered ? Nothing, of course. Was it she
who needed help ? Was it for her own sake she had
summoned him ? Not likely ; for was not attentive
Cyrus sojourning at Stratton, and would he not prove
to be of more service to her in emergency than a
contemplative scribbler of rhymes ? Ever since the
affair at Wattier's he had been unable to shake off an

abiding sense of humiliation and uselessness. A
young lady placed herself under his protection to be
escorted home ; she was assaulted by ruffians ; could
he, Leo, save her from their clutches? No. The
bullies knocked him down before her eyes, and
would have done their will upon his charge, despite
his weak attempts, if burly Cy had not come to the
rescue. Of what possible use was he in the world ?
Not even a dog was benefited by his existence. Was
it probable he ever would come to be of use ? No ;
not even as a singer ; for how could he hope to
attune his lyre to worthy themes whilst tearing over
the Continent after his mistress, an unwilling witness
of scandalous debauches ?

As he walked along the Stratton road, its familiar
landmarks loomed forth one by one, reviving each
a memory. He had been very unhappy here. But
had not all his childhood been unhappy ? How full
of grinding trouble had been that span of years !
He could just remember his father, a stalwart fair
man in a scarlet coat, white breeches, and long black
gaiters buttoning above the knee, who took him in
his arms and kissed him ; then marched away with
a host of others in a cloud of dust, while his wife lay
weeping on the ground. *' He's gone to Ireland to
fight, my darling," the distracted woman sobbed,
and we shall never see him more." After that,
six years of wandering, begging from house to house,

from door to door — sometimes brutally repulsed,
hunted by hounds ; taken in sometimes and fed and
warmed, when a good-natured housewife was touched
by the fatigue of the hunted woman, the pale cheeks
of the starving child. And then that death scene,
when he left his mammy in the hands of strangers,
to be shovelled into a pauper's grave ! A cheerful
childhood to look back upon ! All the little pleasure
in his sad young life had been due to the companionship
of Abigel, to her wondering sympathy, and the
encouragement of her ecstatic admiration. When,
a truant from the forge, he had led her into the wood
and told what the flowers said, translated the birds'
songs, while she squatted opposite with great round
black eyes, the hours had been sweet to him as well
as to her. But no scrap of pleasure unalloyed was to
be his. There came a beating afterwards for playing
truant, and with the stripes returned the practical
misery of life.

To look backwards was not cheering. What of the
future •? Little of hopeful promise. More than ever
did the young man yearn for a time of uninterrupted
communing with nature, that those powers might
bloom and fruit which he knew lay dormant like a
seed awaiting the touch of spring. When you feel
convinced that you possess one talent which, if
nursed, will rise to overtop the showy accomplishments
of others, how hard to be precluded from delving out

the gem! Were lie to go abroad, would such a time ashe
desired ever be vouchsafed ? No. Should it be
finally settled that his life was to be indissolubly tied
to that of her Koyal Highness, farewell all chance of
peace. She professed herself devoured by ennui, and
made plans which changed each day, but whose
common basis was excitement.

And yet it had been in Abby's power to satisfy his
craving. Is it not entertaining to consider how frequently
we persist in plotting and scheming for our
loved ones from our point of view instead of theirs ?
Do you not remember the pathetic story of the favourite
cat, who, seeing her master ill, brought him a mouse
in her mouth, and sat on his chest till he pretended
to eat it ? According to the principle of progression
from protoplasm to perfection, we rise, as we have
noticed, from comfortable lower grades to harassed
and wretched higher ones. Our souls are refined,
improved, elevated ; and we look down on the humble
quadrupeds whose older sisters and brothers we are.
Do we retain their characteristics, subtly modified?
Who has not had occasion to remark that such a
one has a face like a horse or a sheep ? Little Abigel,
who was so earnest and so anxious to shine in her
assumed role of Joan of Arc, must certainly in a previous
state have been that cat that came with the
mouse. How heroically, with what superb dignity,
she put aside the compromise offered by my lord.

whereby she and Leo were to be niade one flesh and
be endowed with enough to live upon ! Of course it
was noble and proper of her to resent the proposal
of humble tranquillity for him, more especially since
the condition was added that she was to act as log.
Avaunt temptation ! " she had said inwardly. " He
must reign in the gilded halls which will see me no
more, dance at Almack's, lounge in the round-room,
go on the ' Grand Strut.' " She had enjoyed her
glimpse of ton, and was the more anxious perchance
to place her hero within the sacred circle, by reason of
the dulness of her present life. She did not care to
reflect that what she was pursuing for him was will-o'-the-wisp
; that a bird in a hand has proverbial advantages;
that Leo, unless worried on the subject,
was perfectly content to hear no more of claims and
possibilities, and would have been only too glad to
embrace an existence of obscurity which might be
devoted to poetic dreaming. He was to take his place
among his peers — that was settled in the mind of
Miss Kowe. It would have been more kind, however,
to have left him undisturbed until she held all her
clues ; for by luring him back to Yorkshire she roused
latent fires in his breast, which he would fain have
left to smoulder. As he passed through Stratton,
across the park towards the pleasaunce, he could not
but be thrilled by the question, " Was he or was he not
the rightful master of all that he beheld — woods, hills,

plateau, silvery sheets of water ? " He even felt a
transitory irritation against his parent, the stalwart
soldier in the scarlet coat, for not having pushed his
claims for his child's sake. And yet, perhaps, that
soldier knew that his claim to be the representative of
an ancient line was shadow ; perhaps he had chid
his v^fe for clinging to it ? And besides, what could
a common soldier do, who, doubtless, was unable
to white or read ; who would have been crushed by
his officers with a high hand as presumptuous spawn,
if he had dared to aspire to their rank — had tried to
elbow iDast to a higher seat even than their own ? He
had ofttimes reflected about his grandsire, whose son
was that private soldier. He must indeed have sunk
low in the world, and he the nephew of the last earl !
But was he ? Oh, why did Leo's mother perish while
her boy was of such tender years, before he was old
enough to convince himself as to the truth of her
assertions ? Was it not all a myth, coined in the sick
brain of the soldier's widow ? Leo was but six years
old when the regiment departed for Ireland, and therefore
knew nought of ranks or worldly property. When
mammy bade him take her lines to my lord Osmington,
was her mind wandering? No; for my lord had, after
a fashion, accepted the charge of the child, instead of
driving it away across the moors to starve. My lord
was not given to the performance of eleemosynary acts.
Perplexed by doubts, fearful of being drawn into a

hunt for mares-nests, Leoline, by the time he reached
the manor-house, was convinced that it would have
been wiser to have stopped away— to have written to
Abby, begging her not to wear herself out by a search
which could only end in failure. And yet what a
delight it was to mark her gladness at sight of his
approaching figure ! How staunch she was and true
to the comrade of her childhood ! Affectionate heart ?
She was sitting on the terrace when he came up, very

close to cousin Cy. Could it be that Well, and

why not ? What right had he, Leo, to feel a pang,
he who was on the eve of departure from England
for who might tell how many years? Cyrus was
working with his brain, conning over the results of
investigation, in hopes of discovering some latent
point that had been overlooked, and the joyous
alacrity of the lady's welcome did not enchant him.

Leo listened to the excited narrative of Abigel with
a half-amused, half-incredulous smile, and then remarked,
twining his arm within hers, " What a fond
castle-builder it is; and they call me dreamy! So you
are convinced there is something in it? The case
turns, you think, on the identity of my grandfather ?
My lord expressed surprise t'other day that I should
not know anything about my own grandfather'*

He did ? " exclaimed Miss Kowe. " Then he was
pumping you."

'* Well," responded Leo, *' grandpa has departed

in all senses of the word ; peace be ^yitll him. What
next ? "

What next, forsooth ! Here was a nice young man
to work for ! So this was the indifferent way in which
he took the disappointment, after all the planning
and scheming and heart-burning ? Abigel was more
hurt than she chose to show, and then was angry
with herself, reflecting that it was the part of a
being superior to herself thus to be above the
temptations and petty hopes and tremors of this
tormenting existence, to gaze with contempt at the
gallant-shows which served to amuse more grovelling
worms. Yes ; he was a genius, and looked up towards
the wreath of sempiternal bays. What by its side
was the coronet of tinsel and velvet ? There is something
vastly fine in turning up the nose at pelf.
Then it occurred to our practical heroine that there
was more at stake than the mere tinsel and velvet.
Disdain does not pay the butcher, or settle the grocer's
book. Broad and numerous acres were attached to
that bit of tinsel ; and it was truly provoking that
the young gentleman should be so heedless as to his
pocket being full or empty. Had he, like the Muses, a
slender appetite ? Ah, but poets are born, not made !
Abigel knew, though she had never wept salt tears
over a Latin grammar, that the genus is rare (the real
black swan, not the glib counterfeit), and that those
who are privileged to behold a specimen must do so

VOL. II. 38

on bare knees, accepting, even worshipping, the eccentricities
in which genius is entrapped. The dear,
noble, soaring, indifferent creature ! Miss Kowe was
provoked, and also enchanted, and more determined
than ever to pick up for him that which he himself
Avould not stoop to clutch.

Though not enchanted, Cy was as determined as
she. Abigel's cheek did not flush so sweetly, or those
bright eyes flash and dance, when he entered the
presence of his cousin. Good-natured Cy felt quite
wicked. The stone must be found, if all Yorkshire
had to be ploughed over. Till the arrival of the
claimant, Abigel had remained quiescent, revolving
plans. Now he was come, she summoned him, as she
had summoned others, to jog his memory. He had
never heard his grandfather's name ? Well, well ;
what did he advise? The blacksmith's enthusiasm
had been a grain of comfort to the explorers. Tenants
would be so relieved by a change of rulers that no one
would keep back any information which they might
be able to throw into the caldron. They must all be
invited to sit round the brew ; double, double, toil and
trouble ; and Fate would be more perverse than usual
if she declined to attend to the incantation.

What ! " cried Leo. *' Summon the tenantry
and cross-question them ? You must be crazy. My
lord would take measures to sweep us into space,
and quite properly. What right have we to raise

his people against him, having nothing but surmise
to start with ? The vague statements and fears of
an hysterical lady, a village blacksmith's gossip —
intangible thistle-bloom ! "

Abby marvelled, for Leo was showing himself in a
new light, and it was she, the paladin, who was
unpractical.

Review the case," pursued Mr. Jarvis, '* since
you cannot be persuaded to leave it alone. A man
appeared one day, very like a tramp — a sort of
tatterdemalion — who declared himself the offspring
of James Christopher, supposed to be dead."

^' You are speaking of your own grandfather," cried
reproachful Abigel.

'' That is not proven. With no difficulty he was
put to rout by Madam Pentecost, who detected,
maybe, the impostor. There ends all we know."

One would think that you were taking part with
Lord Osmington ! " flashed Abby. " Sure your
mother was not also hysterical. If she had no knowledge,
why have confided you, an orphan, to my lord ? "

"Alack!" sighed Leo, fretfully. "I seem ungracious
to you, dear, but it hurts me to see you
waste your youth in kicking against the pricks. How
may I tell that she did not deceive herself? What
reason have I for supposing that my parent, Hans
Jarvis, was not son of another private soldier, and
he of another— food for powder for generations ? "

Nay, that cannot be ! " returned the gM with
warmth. 'how did she become possessed of the
seal you wear that bears the family arms? 'Tis fine
to be a poet, but 'tis craven to submit tamely to
injustice. For my part, though but a slip of a wench,
I would die still resisting, trampled by superior force,
but resisting still. Your ancestors are turning in
their graves. For shame ! For shame ! "

Leo sat silent after this outburst of our heroine.
Cyrus tore up the grass in handfuls. Indeed, Miss
Eowe was woefully inconsistent, pulled by strings
which neither of the young men could see, of which
she was herself but imperfectly conscious'; not sure
of her own mind for two consecutive minutes ; at one
time charmed with the young gentleman's indifference,
the next disgusted. The truth is, that it did
strike her that perhaps she had been precipitate in
declining the compromise; even wondered whether
it would not be best even now at the eleventh

hour And then she was shocked at herself.

Was she hankering after one who showed no signs
of caring for her — rehearsing the terms of barter?
Why, this was as bad as selling him his coronet ?
If she was so powerless to control her emotions,,
'twould have been wiser not to have summoned
him ! What was the use of keeping the phenomenon
upon the gridiron, if he would not die ? Cupid was
kicking and plunging still over the flames, full of

life. It ^Yas maidenly to be victim of a passion
iini-etui-ned. If Cyrus had then and there decided
for her — if he had dragged her to the altar, and,
^Yith a manley clenched under her nose, had insisted
on her saying " I will," she would have been thankful,
for then she would have felt strong enough to
finish off the phenomenon. AVhat was the good of
wearing hair shirts and scourging herself? How
many an undecided maid has been grateful to a
suitor who was bold enough to make up her shilly-shally
mind for her ? " Faint heart," etc., saith the
adage. *' Overscrupulous heart " would be nearer
to the truth. Leoline was dumb from pride, for he
had naught to give the maiden, and was sensitively
repelled from the handling of addled eggs. Inactive
also, Cyrus waited, m hopes that time would develop
certain molehills into Alpine ranges. Perhaps the
young men were both right in their way, although
between them the lady suffered dire anguish ; for hot
love passes, and 'tis sad in later life if a consciousness
of having taken unfair advantages dims the
brightness of retrospect.

Smothering her inward turmoil. Miss Eowe said
lightly, '' No, most practical poet. We will not calla
meeting of aU the tenants, nor set up a Standard
on the plains, as yom* ancestor did. I tell you, sir, he
incas your ancestor. That our next steps may be firm
ones we must find that stone, for there seems to be

no other means of discovering your grandsire's name.
We will privately consult the harridans in the almshouse.
When I talked with them before, there was
no question of a monument. In order to seek high
and low for it, we must learn what it was like. The
crones who sat in church each Sunday will know
that, for they must have spelt it o'er and o'er while
parson snuffled ; so tomorrow morning we will meet
in the village, and hold, with closed doors, our court
of inquiry."

The trio met by appointment in the village, and
made their waj^ to the almshouse. It was a large
building, standing away from the road, and consisted
of a double square, one devoted to old men, the other
to old women. In the centre of each was a lofty hall
a general living room — and upon this the bed-chambers
opened, one row on the ground floor, one
on a gallery above. The ancient dames ceased
quarrelling when our party entered the female ward,
and bobbed and curtsied with twinkling eyes, and
mumbled irrelevant blessings ; for sure a visit from
so fine a young gentleman betokened prospective largesse,
to be laid out in snuff and gin ? " Dear, good
Miss Eowe ! " clacked curtsying drones; 'bless her
comely face ! so kind and thoughtful as she always
is — so considerate in the matter of necessaries,
which are neglected by an unfeeling overseer. The
tea is but sticks, without a particle of comfort ; and

as for the sugar ! — there ! — would Miss Eowe like to
look at it '? Not but what it would become sweet at
once instead of sandy, if she turned her eyes on it ! "
Miss Eowe would not mind the tea or sugar at present ;
she had something more important to go into. " More
important ! " snorted Sally Scraggs, under her breath,
who straightway began to mop and mow and leer
again, as she became aware that Cyrus was watching
her. "Anything that dear good Miss Eowe wanted.
They would all go down on their bare bones, wouldn't
they, if that was what she wanted ? " General chorus
of "AYe would, we would." But Miss Eowe required
something different. With a demure air, she
begged the company to be seated, and proceeded to
open her case. The young gentleman they saw before
them was the Earl of Northallerton, who was come
to claim his own. There was a trifling point or two,
concerning which he required a few details. The
ladies, doubtless, could supply them; and if they
were so obliging, the earl would not forget them in
the future — would even see that their tea was soothing,
and their sugar sweet, and that needful cordials
were kept handy, to be used when they felt giddy or
sinking. The harridans stared at each other, at
Abigel, at LeoHne, in mute amazement. The Earl
of Northallerton ! This was why Miss Eowe had
been so chatty of late. "What line should they, the
harridans, take? The almshouse was supported by

endowment. Lord Osmington, as they howled perpetually,
had never given so much as a petticoat or
yard of flannel. If the case was complete, save fora
few details, it became the harridans, who were long-sighted,
to support the winning side. Strong tea,
good sugar, unlimited strong waters ! The toothless
gums of the hags watered at the prospect. They
looked furtively one at another ; and Sally Scraggs,
who, by reason of superior strength and skill in wielding
a mop, was cock, or rather hen, of the walk,
assumed the office of spokeswoman. Anything that
she or they could do should be done, and at once.
Was it not so? A cackling as of a poultry yard
where croup) is epidemic, a blinking of filmed eyes, a
shower of crocodile tears, a spreading of aspen palms.
Heaven was called to witness that they would do
anything — not for tea or sugar, or even strong waters
perish the thought ! — but in aid of justice. They
were miserable vessels. Bless the kind noble gentleman
and good Miss Eowe ! What details could they
supply ?

Abigel's heart beat fast as she put her question,
firmly, yet carelessly, as if the answer was of trifling
import. Could any of them remember what happened
to the monument that was taken down at the time
the church was restored ?

They was all put back again," asserted Betty
Higgs, in a shrill treble.

"AH but one," said Abigel, with a correcting nod,
striving hard to steady her voice. " The one that
stood over the family pew, between the windows,
opposite the reading-desk, I think. It was erected
by Archibald, tenth earl, in memory of James Christopher,
his brother."

'ray, that it was!" screamed Betty Higgs, holding
up a claw, hoping by volubility to win increased
largesse. *' 'Twas in a furrin tongue, and I used to
wash it, wondering what it meant, being caretaker,
wife of Joe Higgs, parish sexton, who's in the other
house. Just like the savages, to divide an old woman
from her husband. He knows, too."

Sally Scraggs glowered, for it was extremely silly
to suggest that information was to be obtained in the
male ward. '' Tut, woman ! " she cried; 'take heed
to speak the truth. What can he tell of it, or you,
if in a furrin tongue ? ' '

But Betty faced the tyrant, regardless of subsequent
mop vengeance. " Leastways it was in furrin
print," she replied. "And I remember, because I
tumbled off the form, in reaching to dust the ledge,
and hurt myself. And I know 'twas Christopher's,
as it was writ clear, and I mixed it up with Christmas,
when we'd beef and pudding. Those da3^s are
gone, worse luck ! "

Half a dozen hags shrieked a confirmation of the
fact — a dirge over Christmas cheer.

"The church was restored in 1767 — seven and
forty years since," remarked Miss Eowe ; "but some
of those present would remember the general characteristics
of the tablet. What was it like ? "

Then ensued a vehement discussion among the
ladies, each one endeavouring to outspread her neighbour
; the voice of Sally Scraggs rising now and then
above the din, as a huntsman exhorts his hounds.
Unhappily, they could not agree.

Your memories sway like willows ! " Leoline
declared, in tones little suggestive of largesse. " Can
you remember how many windows there were in the
church? Of course not. Abigel, we are wasting
time ; for whose memory may be trusted after forty
years ? " There was a stone ; that much seemed decided.
Who put it up ? The mason or his family

"Dead; all of 'em!" snapped Betty Higgs, who
thought the young gentleman took upon himself, and
was inclined to disparage female evidence.

Remember that I am counsel, specially retained,"
laughed Abby; "so don't interfere. Go on, go on.
What was the stone like ? "

Again the hags sought inspiration from each other.
If only they could have settled beforehand, so as to
be unanimous ! for as it was, the young gentleman
aspersed their memory ; and if they differed too
much, how about tea and sugar at the end of the
meeting ? That could not be helped. A plunge must

be made. One ancient lady vowed that, as she hoped
for future bliss, the stone was a plain square tablet
of black marble, the inscription in gilt letters ;
another, that the top was arched, the colour grey;
another, that it was shaped like the tables of Moses,
its colour white; a fourth called all the saints to
witness that it was formed like an old-fashioned chair.

Tut, women ! " shouted the huntsman. " Speak
the truth, or for ever hold your peace; and don't
chatter all at once."

At last the din subsided from lack of breath, and
the small shrill pipe — like a cheap flute — of Betty
Higgs was heard to state that it was a slab of freestone,
with a cornice, surmounted by a marble cherub ;
and who should know if she didn't, she would like to
know, since it was her duty to keep) it clean ?

The difference of opinion was disheartening, but,
after a lapse of so many jars, it was not unnatural ;
and Abigel, after deliberation, was fain to accept the
statement of Madam Higgs as toihe appearance of
vv'hat she sought.

Thereupon the tyrant became jealous, and endeavoured
to pooh-pooh the opinion of her butt. " The
poor creature's half gone already," she whispered to
Cyrus. " I don't recall there ever being such a thing,
and twice on every blessed Sabbath I sat close by. But
then the fine folks in the pew were grander sights
than bits of stone ; and the gardener used to share

this hymn-book with me, saying I was a fine lass ; and
his name wasn't Scraggs. What else does Miss Eowe
require? Maybe my memory will serve me better
nor that shrill puling Betty's ! "

Madam Higgs was sorely outraged. Half gone, forsooth
! Her memory was better than Madam
Scraggs's any day, so were her Christian feelings.
Mr. Higgs was in the other section; so was Mr.
Manns, the clerk. They would declare if she spoke
the truth, and the nobleman would not forget that it
was she, Betty, and no other, who had given the
right description.

"Could any of the amiable but somewhat vociferous
ladies present tell," inquired the fair inquisitor, "what
became of the tablet after its removal ? "

No ! Madam Scraggs was more at sea than ever ;
for if she declined to believe in its existence, what
could she say of its subsequent career ?

Leoline fidgeted on his seat, for truly his position
was ridiculous. The further the matter was delved
into, the less did it seem possible to arrive at tangible
results. Mr. Jarvis bowed to the curtsying ladies
with a grave haughtiness that forbade them to hope for
necessaries ; trusted, with covert sarcasm, to find them
well on his next visit ; and stalked out with his party,
leaving Madam Higgs to receive her drubbing from
Madam Scraggs, amid snarling strictures on the latter
from the baulked covey, for woeful lack of generalship.

Miss EowT was disheartened, but not vanquished.
*' Dearest Leo," she said, "if you only could be
patient ! Cy was right in not wanting you to
come."

Oh ! He didn't want me to come ? " echoed Mr,
Jarvis, with a searching glance. 'you must bear
with me. What is the use, my dearest girl, of trying
to do anything, since to be slapped in the face is the
common lot of all? What is the use of doing our
best ? Look at the poor flowers ! Do not they put
forth all their strength, and give what they have to
give in the wa" of colour and sweetness ; and what
then? Down comes a thunderstorm, breaks their
frail stems, beats them into the mire ! "

Well, really ! " murmured Abigel, half crying ;
whereat Cy was divided between gladness and indignation.
" I wish you would be quiet. Perchance the
gentlemen can throw more light on the dark subject
than the ladies. Let us try."

A very aged gentleman was sunning himself in a
chair — water-eyed and liquid-lipped — sprawling under
the porch of the male section, with a blue beecher
handkerchief draped over his bald brow to keep away
the flies. Abigel nudged his arm. Would he be soland
as to say where Mr. Manns was to be found,
who had once on a time occupied the proud position
of parish clerk ?

'• I am Manns ! " quavered the veteran. '' Old

but lively— old but lively ! Bless the winsome face !
What can I do for its owner ? "

** You can tell me, if you will," responded Abigel,
tired by this time of circumlocutions, "what the
monument was like that was erected by Archibald,
tenth earl, to the memory of James Christopher
Jervois."

** Memory of James Christopher ! " echoed the aged
clerk. " Never was such a thing in my time, and yon
church was, as it were, a home to me."

Never was such a thing ! " retorted Cyrus roughly
(he built so much on the existence of this tablet).
"You're drivelling — that's what you are, old and
lively — and want to be put to bed with a shovel."

Mr. Manns looked at Cy in mighty dudgeon. " I
don't know you, sir, and don't want," he quavered.
^'I was parish clerk from the year '60 to 1800,
before you cumbered the earth, and there was no such
-thing. I ought to Imoww, I think ! "

Cy's blood was up, for his own sake and Abigel's.
Her distress was evident; for she was pale, and clasped
the hand of Leoline. Hang the jackanapes ! He
might be careless, and she might give way to despondency,
but he, Cy, was resolved to have that stone ;
and if the grey matter in his brain was deficient in
quantity, the bump of obstinacy was largely developed.
Pushing past the driveller, he kicked open the door,
and shouted for some one to show him Mr. Higgs.

After a while another snowy interim ghdecl into the
sunlight, and stood there nodding.

'' Dreadful deaf ! " he whispered. '' A sad affliction !
Dreadful deaf ! "

'• Your wife tells us," bawled Cyrus, so loud as to be
audible half-way to Kipon, '' that you remember a freestone
monument between the windows of the church,
facing the reading-desk, inscribed in antique characters,
to James Christopher Jervois. Is that so ? "

*' Ay, ay! Christmas pudding — I remember," the
deaf man murmured.

"Hark to that!" shouted Cy. "This drivelling
buffoon says there was no such thing."

Nor was there ! " snarled the clerk. "I sat under
the reading-desk, a-saying' ' Amen ' for nigh on forty
year, and reading of the hymns, and ought to know —
ought to know."

'ray, ay!" repeated the sexton; "but you was
always nodding, and we all wondered how 'twas you
said ' x\men ' at the right time ; and there was a pillar
between the reading-desk and the monument, so you
couldn't see it, not been' so interested as some whore
more intelligent in such curiosities as to go and look
for 'em."

This was most satisfying ! Abigel gave her other
hand to Cyrus, and cast on him such a flash of
gratitude for unexpected cleverness as stirred him to
renewed effort.

"You're a nice old gent, worth a dozen of t'other,
and here's a shilling to drmk my health. If you goon
like this, you'll get other shillings to drink the
healths of my friends here. Now, wake up, my covey.
There's no sweet without sweat. If you follow the
river, you'll come to the sea. Of course you remember
the restoration of the church. Of course you do.
The restoration of the church ! " he bawled again.

He'll remember that, for sure ! " cried Kimpton
from over the hedge, with a grin of recognition, to
the party. The blacksmith had seen them arrive,
and, anxious to know the result of the inquiry, had
abandoned hammer for a space.

Ay, ay ! " nodded the deaf man. ** It didn't
need repair, the church didn't, and the wall was more
out of the straight after the job than previous. The
tablet to Mr. Christopher was never put back, for
I mind the churchwarden missing it when the wall
was done. ' Wherever's that there stone ? ' he said.
*' 'Twas leaning in the vestry during alterations, and
now it's gone ! We shall get in a hobble over this
when my lord comes home.' But my lord never took
notice, so the subject dropped."

Miss Kowe looked at Leoline with triumph, and
squeezed her cousin's hand. Ravishing pressure ! If
only he could earn some more ! But nothing further
was to be learnt here. Although it began badly, the
visit had not been vain, however; for there was no

doubt in their minds now about the aspect of the stone.
Mr. Higgs fully corroborated his wife's description —
cherub, dedication in Old English, etc. Leoline alone
remained depressed. How much nearer were they
to the certainty that the name on the stone was
his grandsire's ; and what had become of the tablet
on removal from the church ?

I can't quite tell you that, sir," observed the blacksmith,
with a respectful bob. "But in chatting last
night over a pipe, a friend of mine told a queer yarn
of how about the time of the changes he saw
two men carrying something heavy across the park
wrapped in green baize ; of how he ran up to 'em,
thinking they was robbers with booty, and found it
was two servants of the house, who bade him mind
his own affairs. They were carrying something flat
like a bagatelle board; but their foreheads were
dripping from exertion. He had often felt inquisitive,
but never asked, for 'wasn't business of his. What
if it was the monument ? If that's a clue, take it
and welcome. I wish you good day and luck."

With that the worthy smith returned to his work,
and the trio walked back to the manor-house.

'Twas brought here ; but in this ramshackle building
where to seek it ? " sighed Cyrus. '' 'Tis like the
game of hot and cold ; under our feet — within a yard,
perchance — and yet invisible. How exasperating ! "

Broken — destroyed — an age ago ! Take my word

VOL. n. 39

for it," laughed Leoline. "You're making a fool of
me by trying to pamper my vanity. Kind friends,
I thank you from my soul, but must entreat you to
desist. A chimera — nothing more ; and yet 'twas a
fascinating dream."

What will you do now ? " Cyrus inquired
curiously.

*^ Linger a few days more with you and Abigel, and
then away," Leoline answered sadly. " 'Tis not for
paupers to frame their futures as they will. I, too,

may have built castles, Abigel; but Well,

they've vanished, leaving no wrack behind. Better
so, better so ! "

Abigel looked up at him timidly. Why did he
appear so unutterably wretched ? Was his contempt
for fleshpots mere seeming ? Was proud disdain only
a mask ; and did he, while scoffing, care for his inheritance
? Or was it that he was a little fond of
her, and was sorry to be going ? Oh, if she only
knew ! Stay ! What was this ? The phenomenon
again ? No, no ! He cared for her only as a sister.
How abominably was she behaving in encouraging
disloyal thoughts ! In a romantic moment she had
promised herself to Cy, if he worked faithfully. And
was he not indeed a devoted knight ? She was behaving
horribly, and promised herself sackcloth,
ashes, scourging, fasting — every sort of punishment
and tribulation for betraying symptoms of backsliding.

She would do penance as soon as Leoline was
gone. While he was there, it was futile to combat
with the phenomenon. He was too much for her
frail strength. It was, indeed, well that Leo was going
abroad — ever so far out of reach ; the farther the
better. Time would cure this sickness. Years hence,
as Cy's middle-aged wife with a large family, she
could meet him with unalloyed gladness, look calmly
on the fairy castles — lovely still, but oh, so far away !

Did Cyrus guess the workings of her mind ?
After gazing long at his cousin, he interrupted her
reverie with the abrupt question, '' Where shall we
.seek this stone?"

** Of course — of course — where shall we seek it ?
Anywhere," she murmured incoherently.

'Twill be best to advertise," suggested Cyrus.
Under pressure he was growing astonishingly bright.
We must advertise in the Yorkshire sheet, offering
a reward. How shall we raise the money ? "

"You must let me do that," said Leoline, with a
sigh, " since you will go on with this wild scheme.
The Princess Caroline will gladly supply a small sum
of money, if she can be convinced that it will hurt
her enemies."

And so it was settled. Leoline went back to town,
dumb still on the one point, more despondent and
empty-hearted than he had ever been before. The
sun had no gladness for him ; nature no beauty.

He worked himself w^ into a feeling of annoyance
in that he could be so disappointed over so little
a matter as his claim. Of course it was only that
that vexed him. " Art is better than fools' baubles ! '*
he kept murmuring ; but the axiom brought with it
no touch of consolation. It was the prospect of the
future, perhaps, that made him wretched. No doubt
it was. To wander all over Europe with that woman!
Worse than the pilgrimage of the Israelites, by fan
'* Sweet Abigel ! " he muttered once, when off his
guard, "how can I ever repay thee for such zeal?
How ? How can any one so useless repay any one
for anything ? Ah me ! "

When he was gone, Cyrus breathed more freely
and Abigel began a secret course of upbraiding
and mortification accompanied by wearing regret.
The battle with the phenomenon was killingly severe.
Poor Abigel ! Cruel Leo, not to read her secret !
Was it her fault, she wailed, if the man she wanted
did not seem to want her ; if the man she did not,.
did?

I

Chapter XL

A CURIOUS ADVERTISEMENT.

The days at Osmington House were far from halcyon.
The hed of his lordship, made by himself, was full
of pleats and wrinkles. Perhaps Leo was right in
scoffing at tinsel, and declaring that coronets are
not comfortable wear. Everything was going crooked
with my lord Osmington. As the only remaining
member of the old set, his stale jests and horsey
ways were no longer in keeping with the style of
Carlton House. Lady Hertford disliked him as much
as Mrs. Fitzherbert had done, and was less indulgent ;
and his royal master was weary of him. Eosina
and Maraquita were miracles of vulgarity despite the
gewgaws with which they were bedecked. Their
tempers grew worse as the shower of gems became
less plentiful. The Ark was a pandemonium, and
Vere pitied the original Noah, as he pressed his
aching temples, when he reflected what a time he
must have had on his lengthy voyage. Then, poor
dirty, sodden Sheridan would come whining and

plaguing, full to the brim with jeremiads, glancing
nervously over his shoulder from time to time to see
if he were followed. Since leaving Parliament he
had dropped to the bottom of the slough. He was
hunted to death by creditors. There was no respite.
The tottering wreck of his constitution succumbed
under the strain ; and no longer gay enough to cajole
or wheedle by stratagem or repartee, the persons to
whom he was indebted were inexorable. Withdrawn
from society, in shattered health, friend after friend
deserted him. For Sherry the master-wit, the
centre of fun and jollity, was one person ; Sherry the
puling and crushed was quite another ; especially ashe
always wanted cash, that scarce commodity. One
day he would announce that his senates were destroyed
; that even the gold cup presented by the
electors of Stafford had been seized ; that the precious
portrait of his first wife by Reynolds had been torn
from him. A few days later would arrive a despairing
missive with "Moneybound" scrawled over the
address — a greasy mal-odorous document brought by
a suspicious-looking party from Took's Court, who
lolled in the hall in rusty boots, declining to budge
without an answer. Sure one's own duns are
harassing enough without the personal persecution
of bailiffs who are running of errands for others?
What if Mr. Hamlet were to step in with a new
necklace and perceive the harpy ? Might he not take

fright on his own account and send another to keep
him company? And what woful, terrible letters
were poor Sherry's ! He was heartbroken, degraded,
utterly annihilated in spirit. If some one would give
him his quietus, 'twould be a boon. Meanwhile,
could Vere oblige a despairing friend with a note for
fifty? If not, twenty, or even ten, or five? "I
haven't got such a thing," my lord would growl;
and if I had he'd transform it into brandy ! Damned
pernicious' stuft' ! " And then, with shaky claw, he'd
pour himself a bumper, and gulp it down. His Royal
Highness was kind to his old crony, although, disliking,
as he constitutionally did, disease and dirt and
the shadow of the grave, he would not consent to see
him. His private secretary was constantly calling
upon Sheridan. As to paying his debts, George said,
I've more than enough of my own ; but I will bring
him into Parliament again, so that he will be secure
against arrest." And actually four thousand pounds
(scratched together, Heaven knows how) were deposited
through my lord Moira in the hands of Cocker,
the solicitor, with orders to negotiate for the seat of
Wotton Bassett. But luckless Sherry had still a
glimmering of pride. He lost his footing at Carlton
House, he said, because he would not, as he considered
himself bidden to do, change his politics ; and now,
prostrate in the gutter though he was, he winced at
the thought of returning to the theatre of his triumphs

marked with an owner's brand. '^ No," he blubbered ;
'the royal broad arrow may do for malefactors at
Botany Bay, but not for me. I'd rather die a Whig
with nothing in my stomach, than hoist new colours."
And so he refused the seat, but gladly took the money.
It was the fashion, among other falsehoods, to declare
that Gentleman George refused to relieve Sheridan
in trouble. Mr. Cocker handed him the four thousand
pounds, stating that his royal friend could do no
more for him, and sure 'twas generous enough.
Unhappily, Brinsley's difficulties seemed by their
muddled state of confusion to be a sieve which
swallowed all that any would pour into it, though
in reality they were nothing awful. Friends grew
weary of what appeared to be a hopeless task ; and
the owner of the sponging-house in Took's Court
pronounced Mr. Sherry to be '' carrion," by which
nice image the grim joker wished to convey that his
charge was dead to all intents and purposes, fit
only to feed jackals. " Having carried so much
carrion to Newgate," remarked that shrewd observer
to Lord Osmington, *' I've a fine nose for the smell
of it. There are so many suits against him that
he'll never find bail, and little good if he did. But
your lordship's charity might give him liquor to
drown his cares. Ours is a ready-money house — no
tick. 'Isn't long he's got to live, I'm thinking, and
brandy the panacea."

When Mr. Cribbb returned from Yorkshire with
news that the long-postponed contest was finally
'off," Vere stormed and stamped ^Yith fury. He
had decided that Caleb was the better man, stood to
win heavily on him, and to be baulked by the other
candidate's caprice was most annoying. " Dash, dash,
dash! "What does he mean by it?" he roared.
'' Why did I bring him to town, place him under you,
procure him all sorts of patronage ? That he
should fly in my face and snap his fingers ? He shall
fight. Dash, dash ! he shall 1 " Mr. Cribbb waited till
the storm had spent itself, then said quietly, '' I'm
much more sorry than you, my lord, can be ; but
we can't help it. I've used all arguments. He
leaves the ring for ever; " and with an obeisance the
Champion went his way to the new public-house, whose
good-will he had just purchased. But Caleb Ann,
the Pink of Bow, who was by this time in splendid
trim, was, on his side, much disappointed. He meant
beating the Sprig of Myrtle, who gave himself airs of
refinement and gentility, and was proportionately
disgusted when the Sprig so glaringly displayed a
white feather. He was a coward, then, after all — a
cur, a mean fellow who had won an uncertain
victory and was afraid to give his antagonist revenge.
Had he not said so all along? If there was one
thing in the world that Caleb was fond of denouncing
it was cowardice. For the previous fight the Pink

had been insufficiently trained ; hence the result.
This time, sacrificing his pet vices by a herculean
effort, he had gone in for it with a will ; and the Sprig,
hearing no doubt that the other was in earnest, had
backed out at the eleventh hour. At all the meeting-places
patronized by Corinthians, Caleb showed himself,
poured volumes of opprobrious malice on the
name of Smalley, gibed and jeered at his prowess ;
and Cribbb was grievously exercised. His lips were
closed. Having promised not to mention the young
lady, he invented excuses for the peculiar conduct of
his favourite, and they were so shambling that the
case looked blacker than before. Mendoza sneered ;
vowed that he would take his pupil on a sparring
tour to show him off ; got up a preliminary contest
with a man called Mostyn for a purse of a hundred
guineas, just to display the superiority of the Hebrew
over the Bristol method. Caleb, pushed by a strong
desire to vanquish the Sprig, and reminded by
Mendoza that on grave occasions he must obey,
had hitherto been strangely docile; but the screw
removed, he broke out again as usual, spent his
nights in the stews, his days in rioting, insulting
quiet citizens after his bullying fashion. Mostyn
proved no match for him. The hundred guineas were
flung about like counters. Well rigged in slap-uj)
Mcksies, he swaggered into Limmer's — haunt of
betting-men, celebrated at that time for divine gin-punch,

the priest port, and dirty bedS' — and invited
all to drink. Such as refused were certain of a
hustle or a blow. 'more bottles, cellarman ! " he
shouted ; 'plots more bottles, and of your best. I know
the tricks of the trade ; for was I not once myself a
vintner's man at York? Come, no heeltaps, gentlemen
! " And then the party', filled with Dutch courage,
tore down Bond Street, yelling like Shocks, smashing
the lamps and wrenching knockers, following the example
of their betters ; while the watchmen cowered
in their boxes or fled down neighbouring lanes. All
who cared for the Fancy were shocked at Caleb's
readiness. He cast discredit on the noble art, and
a meeting was held at the Pugilistic Club to consider
what was to be done. Now, Caleb was the recognized
'protege of Yere, the President of the club. He had
ingratiated himself by usefulness — carrying secret
notes, arranging interviews, performing jobs, which
my lord would never have dared to ask Smalley to
perform. He was invaluable as a factotum of the
lowest sort, on which account much might be condoned.
But overt acts of ruffianism must be put an
end to, once and for ever. So my lord took a leaf out
of Mendoza's book.

It chanced that after the debauch at Limmer's,
the night was finished at a genteel private hell
in Grafton Street, where the would-be Corinthian
lost every penny that remained of his prize-money.

The builder of the sla^D-up kicksies, hearing of this,
arrested him next day for a sum of thirty pounds
for sundry splendid garments. Vere saw his opportunity,
paid the debt, took the culprit home, and
lectured him.

"You sold yourself to Mendoza once," he said, "and
are his property, a fact you acknowledge by implicit
obedience when he demands it."

That is so," replied Caleb, wondering what my
lord was driving at.

Mendoza is too lenient a master for such a rowdy
ruffian, so I intend to put claims on you myself.
You owe me thirty pounds. So long as you behave
yourself I shall not trouble you about it, but so sure
as you break out, into prison you go. I am aware
that the debt is small, and that you could win the
amount and more with your fists ; but I shall make
it my business to see that this is rendered impossible.
Behave yourself, to outward seeming at least, and
your life shall be without a care."

Caleb shrugged his shoulders. 'Twas scarcely
generous to met him thus ; but what could not be cured
must be endured. He would serve my lord, as he had
already done, faithfully ; but if drink was about he
could not promise to keep his hands off, and if
there was an appetizing row he must perforce be
in it. It must be for his lordship to keep him out
of temptation.

I don't like it, my lord," lie grumbled. "Didn't
I do 3^onr bidding before, without your making a
black of me ? "

To which my lord retorted with a fierce scowl.
The devil join did ! How about the mess you made
of that simple little affair at Wattier's ? Scum like
you must be bound hand and foot."

For the present, at least, my lord would hold his
slave in leash ; dole out pocket-money for services
rendered, but allow him to make no large sums on his
own account. As President of the club, he could easily
quash any attempts at arranging a match. Mendoza,
in such a matter, would do as he was bid. Caleb, therefore,
lived on the fat of the land, was useful as a go-between,
preserved a veneer of decency, but was not
content ; for his pockets were empty, and he felt this
servitude more galling than the strange compact with
Mendoza. He moped in the gorgeous saloons of
Osmington House, and wished he could escape ; spent
his spare time in considering how mean it was of a
rich lord to steal such a march over an ignorant fellow-insect.
As for Mendoza, he gladly chimed in with my
lord Osmington, for he was aware of a coming crusade
against the ring, and perceived how necessary it was
that bruisers should learn to behave themselves.
Cribbb and his polished following had always been
wormwood to Mendoza, by reason of the consideration
they enjoyed ; and the former, buffeted as he was on

the subject of Smalley, retorted by deprecating the
vulgar antics of what he called the "costard-monger
lot."

Uneasy as was the couch of Vere, the discomfort
caused by an ill-made bed was nothing to the unexpected
agony Vere received one morning from a
new and fearsome source. He fairly jumped and
howled ; and Caleb, when he entered the sleeping
chamber with a dish of chocolate, beheld so ghastly
a visage below the laced nightcap, as filled him with
apprehension. Should a doctor be fetched ? Was my
lord in extremis, or was he enraged to the level of
epilepsy by some hitherto concealed peccadillo of his
serf's ? Small sins of Caleb's were constantly cropping
up, and the atmosphere was always breezy. On this
occasion, curious to relate, he was not to blame, for my
lord with a curse bade him put down the cup and go
away. What could have affected him thus ? Purple
circles were around his eyes ; his jaw had dropped.
On the counterpane lay an open letter ; in one hand
a newspaper was clutched. As a rule, Yere did not
permit letters to trouble him. His valet was well
drilled. The morning budget was carefully sorted
before being placed by the bedside on a silver salver,
as used to be his habit in palmer days. He deigned
now to open those whose superscriptions were in
female characters himself. Others were read aloud,
while the barber did his work. Those from tradespeople

were, of course, tossed unread into the fire.
On this particular morning, Vere's eye, glancing
bilious over the heap, detected one written in a
male hand, which demanded his attention. It was
a large and heavy packet, superscribed by his Yorkshire
agent.

Already ! " he ejaculated. '' To send so soon, he
must have sold the timber standing, and transmitted
the amount in notes. Sharp fellow ! "

But on opening the packet a local journal tumbled
thence, instead of notes, and an account of the
events whose occurrence at Battle Magna has already
been detailed. As he read his grey face flushed with
ire and scorn, but as he read on it blanched.
Miss Eowe, her cousin, and a gentleman from town,
3j Mr. Jarvis, had been interviewing the almshouse
people, preaching sedition against the powers that
were, gabbling tomfoolery by the yard. The raid
was beneath contempt, of course, or would be, but
that certain harebrained persons had been taken
with a disease that threatened to be epidemic.
Miss Kowe went about declaring openly that my lord
was a usurper, that a chain of evidence required but a
link or two to prove this. (" One missing link makes
the whole chain valueless," my lord laughed to himself.)
It was the painful duty of the agent to report
that sundry tenants were so anxious to escape from
my lord's beneficent control that they had actually

met Miss Eowe at the forge, and offered then and
there to pay their rent twice over, that funds should
not be wanting for the pursuit of the inquiry.

Donkeys ! " spluttered my lord. " Pay twice over,
will they? A charlatan robs fools by promise of
millennium — low rents, improvements, farm buildings,
and they throw their stakes into the conjuror's
lucky-bag, which is supposed to hold no blanks !
Dolts ! zanies ! What shall I do with that stuck-uj)
mischief-maker, the fox, who'd eat my entrails ? Dash,
dash ! almshouse ! She shall be expelled from the
place, and her idiotic grandcourt too. What a fool not
to have been more determined when I was down there !
Why doesn't the witch coerce her ? " On second
thoughts prudence hinted that 'twould be rash to
show rancour. These rebellious tenants would take
in the outcasts ; there'd be a hubbub. Besides, old
Pentecost, if driven to it, might say awkward things.
But what a bogey was all this ! Let them search and
welcome ; there was nothing to find. Had not the
housekeeper said so? These doings of her niece's
would only secure my lord more firmly on his throne-pentecost,
if left alone, would hold her tongue. The
girl might do her worst, and the world would applaud
the possessor's nobility of heart in ignoring the meddling
of the jade. The letter went on, **I remonstrated
with Madam Smalley on the conduct of her
niece, but could get nothing from her. She seemed

i

scared and gagged. If I might advise, it would be to
suggest that the lady be placed at once under medical
supervision. She is certainly mad, if harmless."
(harmless! I hope she is," growled my lord.) "I
enclose a number of a recent Yorkshire Post, on account
of a curious advertisement therein contained concerning
a monument. This is reprehensible folly, for I
have inquired, and it is well known that there never
was any such monument at all. Hoping that your
lordship's precious health is good, I have the honour
to remain, etc., etc." The agent had despatched no
money, or promise to raise any; only this, the advertisement
which had given to Vere's face the expression
that frightened Caleb. It ran thus : " Five hundred
pounds reward will be given to any person who can
produce or point out the whereabouts of a memorial
tablet that was removed from the parish church of
Stratton-on-the-Fosse, in the year of our Lord 1767,
during structural alterations. It is a freestone tablet,
four feet square, with a cornice running along the
top, surmounted by a cherub in white marble. So
that the memorial , inscription be still legible, it
matters not if the stone be in pieces. Apply in the
first instance to Mr. Cyrus Smallest at the Forge,
Stratton-on-the-Fosse. That the reward is offered
hand fide may be ascertained by a correspondent
dwelling at a distance, if the said individual will
make personal application to the Hon. Ambrosia
VOL. II. 40

Cotton, Connaught House, London, by whom the
money will be paid."

*good God!" cried Vere, leaping up in bed.
** They're on the track of Koger ! How could they

know ? How could they discover ? Has Pentecost

No, no ! I am absurdly nervous and unhinged. My
father removed all trace of that stone. What did
he do with it ? What a blunderer am I, not to have
asked Pentecost ! I wonder what was writ on it ? "

Endeavour as he would to reassure himself, Vere's
confidence in his star was shaken. How could the
busybodies have learned that the tablet ever existed?
Trusting to Pentecost's assurances, he had been
lamentably careless. That letter which Cyrus had
brought had been overlooked by Pentecost. How could
he be sure that there were not other letters equally
compromising? ''^ Apply to Mr. Cyrus Smalley! "
He had turned traitor, then ? For the sake, of course,
of that abominable little marplot. Oh, the artful
jade, who looked as if butter would not melt in her
mouth ! The arrant flirt had tied two strings to her
bow — was playing off one swain for the benefit of the
other. And the mutton-headed boor was taken in
by so flimsy a device ! Keally these bruisers were
revoltingly stupid. The section of society that inveighed
against them was in the right. They must
be put down en masse. The ring was destructive of
intellectual activity. Was it not humiliating to see

big broad-shouldered men used as cat's-paws by
hussies '? Where was the dominion of man, when a
girl could twist his great hulking carcase round her
finger? That legend of Samson is offensive. Had
he gone to school and learnt his ABC instead of
practising athletics, he would not have fallen a presto
Delilah ; and if he had been stewed up over his
slate, his form would not have attained the muscular
development which enchanted the frail lady. So this
modern Samson was in league with Delilah ? She
should not be allowed to snip his locks ; not a bit
of it. Blunder-pated booby ! He must be lured to
town, delivered to the press-gang, got rid of somehow
for ever. No difficulty about that. The Champion
was artful, too ; for he, of course, was in the secret,
since he had been sojourning in Yorkshire with Cyrus.
My lord rang loudly for his valet. No levee to-day.
Dismiss the clients ; they were all either duns or
bores. The Champion ! Who would have thought it ?
Sly old dog ! No wonder Cy's appearance had been
unsatisfactory. Instead of training, they had all been
scheming. Who could tell but what she had inveigled
Cribbb as well as the other within the toils — another
Samson ? "I must find that out," concluded my
lord. '' Tom is too simple to lie well."

While submitting himself to the dressers, my lord
reviewed his agent's narrative and his own course of
action with charnel-house facetiousness. " Glad,"

he muttered, *that I popped that other letter into
the lapis-lazuli receptacle. Wonder if they've come
on it ? Wish I knew more of the story, and could
mix up the dates. What fun to mislead 'em, and
prove that the baroness for whom the duel was fought
was old enough to be her lover's grandmother, and
he a brat of nine ! 'Twould make the case absurd.
Well, the first thing for me to do is to call on Thomas
Cribbb. A coach instanter, to bear me to the Borough
Market. You, Caleb, await my return, lest I should
want you."

My lord, in his excitement, screamed to the jarvey
to go quicker ; never to mind the children or apple -
women — nuisances ! — but to gallop over Westminster
Bridge, and make with all despatch for the publichouse
with a newly painted sign — a lion.

There was something amiss with Cribbb. Instead
of surveying his newly acquired territory with proud
affection, marking the sheen of the fixings, the glitter
of X's on the barrels ranged on a shelf behind the
bar, the sparkling rows of pewter-pots, he was sitting
disconsolate, smoking a glum pipe, which he shook
out at once on perceiving who was his visitor. My
lord was seldom out so early or so far afield, but was
welcome. Had anything fresh transpired ? Did the
Prince of Wales

No ! " cried my lord, heartily, raising a quizzing
glass to admire the Champion's glory. ** The Prince of

Wales no longer needs the strong arms of his fistic
body-guard ; not because people do not hoot him, but
because he lives secluded. I don't know what's come
to him ; he'll be an anchorite some day. When the
devil was sick, you Imoww — eh, Tom ? What a
splendid place you've got ! Carlton House isn't half
so showy," proceeded Vere, with kittenish glee. "Oh,
you sly fox ! And you thought to deceive me — me 1
But I've found you out, and your doings at Battle
Magna. Training ? Pio ! Syllabub and sighs. Why
could you not tell a trusty well-tried friend and patron
that the young jackass retired from the profession
because he was love-sick ? And to think of you
playing duenna ! An asinine complaint, as common
as measles, and easier to cure. I'm not angry about
it, for he'll weary of her if left unopposed for a bit,
and will return to the ring the better for the rest in
native air. A sly, reserved old varmint, you are —
much too devilish sly ! "

'would it might be, my lord," the Champion exclaimed
hopefully. " But I doubt it ; for Cyrus, bless
him ! has a great big heart, and it beats all for her.
She's a tough bit o' goods, and stood out as grand as
any duchess. She swore, so Smalley told me, that
she'd never take one of us ; and I fear she won't. My
desire's for his happiness. I care for that lad as if
he was my own flesh. Please God, he'll never know
the unworthy things they say of him."

Vere's eyes gleamed. Here was a hint, which might
he used to separate those two conspirators. A pair
can work at a problem so much easier than one, even
though the second] is a mere mutton-headed bruiser.
The coalition must be dissolved, ere Cy and Abigel
did further mischief; and my lord saw his way to
manage the job. He had been right in his conjecture
; that was what he trundled all the way to the
Borough to find out. So he tried a glass of Thomas's
ale, gave as a toast, " The return of the jackass to
his wallowing," and trundled home again.

Meanwhile, Caleb was ferreting about for the cause
of his patron's anxiety. He conned the open correspondence,
left in a hurry on the bed. Begging letters
love epistles — pah ! Caleb was sick to death of the
twaddle. A communication from the agent. This
was more interesting. An advertisement ; where was
it ? "My word ! " he ejaculated, as, after reading it
twice through, he replaced the news-sheet where he
found it. '* Five hundred shiners ! What a haul !
They'd get me swimmingly out of this confounded
mess. Let me see. I'd pay the paltry thirty pounds ;
go on a sparring tour, make hateful ; live like a gentleman.
No more tricks ; the sharp lesson's learnt
My lord would cut up rough, which would not hurt
me. If he can prevent my fighting here, he couldn't
stop my going round the provinces — if I was free!
Oh, if I was free ! And Mendoza ; he'd like it, I

know. Blowed if I don't go and see this Mrs. Cotton."
Caleb put on his hat, and Alas about to sally forth ;
but, taking up the news-sheet to look again at the
address, his face fell, and he spun his hat into a
corner with a curse. "Damn Mr. Cyrus Smalley ! "
he grunted ; " always in my way. So he's the party
interested, is he — the cur ? Dashed if I don't leave it
alone, then, just to spite him. Blustering coward!
Ugh! I'll escape some other way, or stop where I am,
alarmed if I don't, rather than do him a pleasure."

Caleb was standing straddle-legged, staring sombrely
out of window, with hands plunged deep in breeches -
pockets, as he tried to see ^' some other way," when
Lord Osmington strode into the chamber, and clapped
him on the back.

*' A penny for your thoughts ! " he cried gaily; while
the other looked guilty and confused. " I'll wager
you were thinking that this house is a gilded gaol ;
that 'tis better within the ropes under a blue sky than
in a gloomy barrack like this ? Let me see. You'd
have netted a fine sum over a battle with the Sprig ?
Pity— isn't it ? "

That's just about what I was thinking," admitted
Caleb, taken aback.

"You certainly would have beaten him?" inquired
my lord, jocosely.

"Of course I should," replied Caleb. "What put
me out in t'other set-to was, that I was not quite

sober, and he took advantage of it. Of course I'd
Jive beat him, if on my mettle, or he'd have beaten
me ; no matter which, so long as it was straight.
I'm a queer rough chap "

You are," laughed my lord.

But I do like fair play. When Cohen beat me on
that thirty guinea job, I didn't bear him malice —
not I. I was fairly done, and could not come up to
time, and we shook hands over it, for all I was so
blinded I could not see. But to make such a to-do,
and then back out without a by-your-leave ! There,
I don't like the fellow, and never did; he was too
domineering, as if I was dirt. But I didn't think him
such a bad 'un as he showed by backing out."

Still burning for the fray ? What if he came
forward now ? You'd have to drop lush again, you
blackguard."

"What I done afore, I could do again, I suppose,"
retorted the bruiser, sulkily. "Your lordship will
have your joke. I'm rusting here. I've been faithful,
haven't I ? May I go on a tour with Mendoza round
the provinces, just for a little ? I'll take my oath to
behave proper, s'elp me, I will. No ? Lock me up,
then ; I'm sick of it. As you said, it is a gaol. This
prison's no better than the Fleet."

Vere looked at his victim with scornful amusement.
He was getting restive, and would shortly break out
of control. " Pity such a pretty fellow should rot in

gaol!" he scoffed. ** Listen now. You despise that
craven chap, don't you '? "

With all my soul ! "

'' So do I. He's proved ungrateful. He hasn't
dared to appear, seeing that this time you were
earnestly resolved to do your very best. When I
abused him for it, he was insolent, and I retorted
with the truth ; and he, so soon as my back was
turned, tried to make mischief with my tenants —
raking up foolish tales, wisely buried long since — out
of spiteful revenge, just like a coward. What if I had
hit upon a means of forcing him to meet you — of
dragging him from his skulking retirement ? What if
I doubled the stakes, brought you forward as the
favourite \ you could do the rest ? My lord Yarmouth,
the vice-president of the club, had resolved to lay
on you, convinced by me that you were the better
man."

Caleb glanced furtively at his patron with suspicious
eyes. What was he driving at? He was up to
something. Why couldn't he speak out ? How could
he force the cur from his lair ; and what could be the
object of all this ? Was it connected with the sudden
energy produced by the agent's news ? The Sprig of
Myrtle was in Yorkshire. My lord was trying to use
him, Caleb, as a weapon of defence against something
that was going on in the north. So much was
easy to fathom. Mr. Ann was ready to be a weapon

if it was made worth his while, but was desirous of
knowing beforehand the nature of the service required.

"Don't you think, my lord," he grumbled, "that
plain speaking's best ? I'm in your hands, snared
round, for I cannot stand against your power. You
offer to set me on my legs again. What is it for ?
What am I to do ? A cove hits straighter with his
eyes about him than when blindfold."

There was truth in that. The clown was not so
oafish as he looked. He had imbibed the salutary
lesson that his patron's influence could ruin him, if he
showed signs of trickery. Under the circumstances,
it would be wise to take him into confidence. Not too
much, but just enough to raise a belief that he was
trusted. Vere told him briefly, then, that the coxcomb
Jarvis, whom he, Caleb, had been bidden once upon
a time to kidnap, was employed by the Princess of
Wales to annoy the Prince through Lord Osmington,
his dearest friend. He told him that use was being
made of a similarity of name to tack this upstart ta
a legend concerning a certain extinct peerage. Of
course, all this was insane ; but, like much mischievous
insanity, was capable of giving serious
annoyance and causing great expense. Smalley, out
of pique against his kind patron, and jealousy of his
rival, Caleb, was encouraging this Jarvis, helping him
to raise a dust. It was of importance, as Caleb would
doubtless perceive, that Smalley should be withdrawn

i

from Yorkshire from assisting Jarvis. He, my lord,
believed that he had means at hand wherewithal even
the lily-livered biped could be forced to assume a
semblance of courage. He could fight, if driven to it,
as had been several times demonstrated. He could
and should be induced to fight again, and against
Caleb. So much was straightforward; and with this
much information the Pink must for the nonce be
satisfied.

Jarvis ! " Caleb ruminated. " Not an uncommon
name. Lots of 'em. There are City Jarvises — no
end."

What city Jarvises ? " demanded Vere, on the
alert.

They've a family vault in the churchyard of
St. Botolph's," returned Caleb, carelessly. " Sacred
to the memory of James Jarvis of Cripplegate, I
remember it runs."

The deuce they have ! " cried my lord Osmington,
whose brain, roused to unaccustomed action, teemed
with new possibilities. "What do you know of
them ? "

Personally very little. Your lordship knows that
as a slip of a lad I was jack of many trades, more
especially a loafer. Barges, vintner's man, painter's
model — all sorts of things. Some pals of mine were
'prentice lads in Cripplegate, and used to play chuck-farthing
upon the top of that selfsame family vault,

and used to be threatened by the pew-opener with the
vengeance of the folks who owned the cheerful
residence — the Jarvises of Houndsditch ; a couple of
'em, living both in Silver Street. One a kicked
maker, t'other a fishmonger. Many's the pennyworth
of shrimps I've bought of him ! "

** Ah ! " replied my lord, who apparently lost interest
in the City Jarvises. "You do my bidding, Caleb
Ann, and you won't regret it ; for you shall beat the
Sprig, earn heaps of money, and be let out of leading-strings.
There's a prospect ! And mind you keep
your tongue between your teeth."

I'm fly," grinned Mr. Kann. " What is your
bidding ? "

To make yourself scarce now, to behave yourself,
and to send in the footman with the decanter,"
answered my lord, with unusual affability.

Vere sat down, and fortified himself with a draught
of capelle, thinking what a loss he was to diplomacy.
Talleyrand and Metternich were nothing to him.
The position was not at present dangerous, but there
was no telling at what moment it might become so.
Tiny feathers, overlooked by the most careful sweeping,
rise sometimes and warn those who are on the
look-out of the direction of the wind. Vere could
distinguish no feather such as might catch the
watchful eye of Abigel ; no, not one. That was a
capital notion about Smalley. After all, by luring

the blockhead Samson from Delilah's clutches, was
not his patron doing a kind act ? It was so soothing
to him to do kind acts. The belt would be worth
more to him than a coquette's fancy ; for there is but
one belt, while coquettes are legion. Not a single
feather ! Lord Osmington chanced to turn his head,
and ground his teeth, as he caught sight of the Yorkshire
sheet. " To think," he muttered, as he tore it
into fragments, *' that my own mother, drivelling
creature, should cause this pother ! She was very mad ;
ought to have been more carefully guarded. These
City Jarvises may be a grand trouvaille. Poor and
venal, doubtless. James Jarvis, too ! " And my lord,
whose amazing display of energy was not yet over,
put on a simple frock, and calling another coach,
directed the driver City-wards.

Mr. Caleb Ann also sat down to reflect, to review
pros and cons, and study how they might best be
employed to his individual advantage. Five hundred
shiners. A splendid sum ! What could not be accomplished
with five hundred shiners ? Should he
call on Madam Ambrosia Cotton, and state that
through an accidental circumstance he was in a
position to claim the reward ? No ; because of C^tus.
If my lord could force the recreant forward so much
the better ; for Caleb had full confidence in his own
superior skill. Mendoza had stated that he was
perfectly satisfied during the recent training that his

pupil had conquered his awkward trick of hitting from
the elbow, and was equal to aught that Cribbb could
bring up against him, or any of the Bristol school.
Those five hundred shiners must be allowed to slip
between his fingers. That did not matter, for other
shiners would be forthcoming, since my lord was
about to give up the whimsical role of jailer and push
his willing servant. The match with Cy would bring
him so much ; then a few exhibitions, as victor, at the
Fives-courts so much more ; then a triumphal progress
through the country. There would be hateful
of shiners ! He would reap a golden harvest, and
away from town in some secluded village lord it over
yokels ; abandon himself freely to his vices for a long
while to come. Meanwhile he must take his lesson
well to heart, and be cautious in the matter of frolics.
Inwardly he swore that even after pummelling Cy out
of all semblance of humanity he would behave decently
— yes, quite decently. No more prime port at
Limmer's. Corinthians should marvel at his model
conduct. My lord should be gratified ; for though he
had behaved meanly in catching his henchman in a
trap, that should be condoned and forgotten in the
coruscation of his subsequent munificence. Yes ; he
would go and tell Mendoza at once that the match
would come off after all, and that he was going to befor
the present at least, the most polite of bruisers.

CHAPTER XII.

THE FIVES-COURTS.

Thomas Cribbb was not one to cry over spoilt milk.
That the apple of his eye — his "boy," as he loved to
cal Cyrus — should behave in so unprofessional a
manner was grievous. That he should prefer a nutbrown
maid, with ideas above her station and a
tendency to "don the breeches," to fistic reputation was
lamentable ; but as the ancient adage hath it, " You
may take the horse to the water," etc. Some heroes
Hke being henpecked. If Samson had espoused
Delilah (always supposing that she could have kept
her scissors off those tempting curls), she would have
flung puddings at his pate, and have otherwise caused
existence to be irksome. Perhaps, after all, the affair
with the Philistines turned out for the best. He only
got his eyes put out, and was used to adorn a holiday.
Sure that was a more merciful dispensation than years
of nagging and submission, such as would otherwise
have been the fate of the brawny athlete ? " We must

all eat oiir peck of ashes ere we die," said some wiseacre.
If Cyrus chose to chew the cud of his repast of
cinders in Yorkshire, and spread it over a lifetime,
whom, besides himself, did it concern ?

The Champion was hurt in his feelings ; for people
who should know better made disagreeable remarks.
None of his pupils came to any good, revilers sneered.
At their best, like their teacher, they were slow. Of
the same school, Jem Beecher (defunct, alas ! ) as a
master was infinitely superior to Thomas, and Tom's
professional amour jproiwe was piqued. Cyrus was a
failure. That could not be denied. Cribbb glanced
around, and his eye fell on one Thomas Winter, a
butcher of Leinster, whose symmetrical figure and
long arms marked him as a promising neophyte. His
private character was irreproachable, and manners
sufficiently good ; so the Champion rechristened him
Spring," and after some private tuition announced
a benefit for the purpose of showing him off.

It was winter time ; but the amatem's, who dreaded
the dulness of their patrimonial castles, were in town,
or at Brighton, within hail ; and the meeting, owing to
the popularity of the Champion, was crowded to excess.
Two hundred pounds were taken at the doors, at three
shillings a head. Every one came who could, in
honour of the beneficiary — fancies of all classes, from
the nobleman to the pickpocket ; for, as all the world
knows, on occasions such as this, petty distinctions of

swell or queer covey are suspended by mutual consent.
The greasy slialloiv is on a footing with the lily topper ;
seedy togs pass current with the pale benjamin ; while
family folk are allowed to chaff with the regulars, provided
no business is done on the premises ; a restriction
for which the former make ample amends when all is
over, by emptying the sockets of the flats so soon as
they begin to toddle.

Gentleman George promised to leave the retirement
in which, since the departure of the Allies, he had
ensconced himself, for the purpose of being present —
a great compliment on his part ; for the public was
beginning to be agitated again, and when this
happened, as it did periodically, the vials of popular
wrath were always discharged over the unfortunate
Regent. This time the cause of the turmoil was not
CaroHne — she had her head buried in trunks, and
was too busy packing up her clothes to be aggressive ;
or Charlotte — she was in duress in the wilds of
Windsor Forest. It was corn, and the legislation
thereanent, that was rousing the ire of the people ; and
so frantic were they, that the Riot Act had to be read,
the soldiery called out. Placards were paraded in the
streets ; sentences, rife with grim meaning, chalked on
the walls : '' Bread or Blood ! " " More Bellingham ! "
Bread, Bread, or the Regent's Head ! " and so forth.
A loaf, steeped in blood, was even flung over Carlton
House wall; and the Prince of Wales, when it was

VOL. II. 41

brought to him, cried out, "What next will they
accuse me of — poisoning my mother, or imprisoning
the King?"

It was but an emphatic expression of the general
misery — woe that for a space had been forgotten in
pageants and festivities. The country was in a most
dangerous condition. Bad feeling towards the upper
classes, ominous already, had been shooting up with
steady growth, and it was but natural that the
ostensible leader of that class should receive the dead
cats and rotten eggs that were intended for his entire
following. On the whole, the Prince was lucky. Rude
remarks scrawled on a wall, and a bit of bread, were
nothing to past worries. Personally he was not
molested, or his windows broken. Ministers had
their railings torn up, their doors stove in. The Lifeguards
(there being no police except the band of Bow
Street runners) patrolled the thoroughfares, pursued
by a mob shouting, 'down with the Piccadilly
butchers ! " A house in King Street was attacked by
a rabblement, who smashed the panes of glass while
the owner stood calmly looking on. A handsome man
he was, with thick dark eyebrows and grizzled hair,
dressed in a tight blue coat, a blue spencer, kerseymere
breeches, long gaiters, shoes covered by galoshes,
and a high white neckcloth. It was no other than my
lord Castlereagh himself, to whom the country owed
so much, who, with unruffled mien, was witnessing
the destruction of his property.

To reach the scene of the Champion's benefit, his
Royal Highness had not far to go. The Fives-court,
or headquarters of the Fancy, was situated in the
neighbourhood of the Haymarket. There was another
in St. Martin's Lane. Though the resort of the elite,
the Haymarket establishment was a humble place
enough, being simply a large open area, covered in
from the weather, with a square central platform
raised a few feet above the ground. An afternoon's
sport was frequently organized there by some knight
of the knuckle for his benefit, the services of the performers
being repaid by a good dinner and a plentiful
supply of lush.

When the Prince entered, the place was crowded,
and presented an animated scene, bright with varied
colour, quite different from the black, monotonous
aspect of a male assembly at a later time. Enter,
and enjoy a cursory glance. There stands old
Gardolio, the Jew, with his basket of oranges,
privileged to enter the sacred precincts because, before
his spine was injured by a butcher's cart, he had been
a promising pugilist : a forlorn cripple now, as, with
beaky nose and pendulous ears and large sad eyes,
he gazes at a surrounding group of saplings, who are
spurting then dribbling wit on him. But the jet is
soon stopped, for a tall, beetle-browed, square-jawed
man bids them, in a rich brogue, to respect old age.
This is no other than Jack Eandal, one of the most
promising of the younger lot, who always makes a

point on these occasions of appearing in national
costume ; to wit, worsted stockings, corduroys, and a
neckerchief of glowing emerald. Just over his hat,
smiling at his Celtic heat, you may catch a glimpse of
big Bob Reason, better known as Pot of Pork, late a
pupil of Mendoza's, now of the Castle Tavern, Lowborn,
and occasionally an Academy model. But they do
not like him much in that august abode of art, for he
is coarse and ruffianly, and has a trick of picking up
an impudent student like a teasing fly, and of dropping
him out of window. Hard by is young Lord Sefton,
in a superfine blue stout, white bell-shaped hat,
and a pair of slashed leather continuations. Leaning
on a crutch stick he listens with a high-bred
curl of the lip to the opinions of an insolent, brazen-faced
man, Tom Hickman, better known as *' Gas""
who, loudly and vulgarly dressed, with a chain like
a ship's cable and a gaudy orange necktie, gathers a
crowd about him by means of a brawling tongue. The
neat and natty form of Tom Beecher (brother of the
great Jem), who has just returned from a triumphant
cruise in Ireland, elbows through the throng. He
stops to say a word to Mr. Pierce Egan, who is making
notes for the WceJdy Despatch, and smiles to catch a
youth in the furtive act of sketching him — a rising
young draughtsman this, by the name of George
Cruikshank. And then there's Gentleman Jackson,
at whose select rooms in Bond Street — he has left the

Cock at Sutton — amateurs are taught to spar. He
never bets, and in all sporting matters his decision is
final. The Eight Hon. William Wyndham learnt
from him, and also Ked Herrings, my lord Yarmouth.
It is even whispered that the Grand Signor himself
once put on the gloves with him, hut did not repeat
the operation ; for servility and flattery are strangers
to Mr. Jackson, who proceeded (my pen blushes to
chronicle the misdemeanour) to plant one in the
royal bow-widow, just as if it was an ordinary bread-basket.


Two strapping fellows, as the Prince advanced,
sLipped gaily on to the platform, and, stripped to the
waist, began to hammer and to thump in a playful
and suggestive manner. This was the tuning of
the fiddles for the overture. They donned immense
gloves, attitudinized, went through the process of
Jilting, milling, and refining in so w^orkmanlike a
way as to improve everybody's temper, and open the
heart to generosity in the matter of laying odds,
*more pepper-box!" shouted Hickman behind his
hand. " Give him a misty castor under the listener /
Sew him up ! " " Hold your braying tongue," retorted
Mr. Eandal ; *' one can't hear one's self speak for your
hee-haws ! " All were in the best of humours, except
his Royal Highness, who received a shock just as he
entered, which upset his equanimity. The ancient
Egyptians liked to have a mummy at their feasts to

remind them that flesh is grass. The Prince of Wales
objected strongly to anything of the kind. Why, then,
did that squalid figure, with face concealed by a
stained kerchief, clutch at him with mike-grimed
fingers as he passed ? He shook it off by instinct,
supposing that it must be some froward rioter who
was guilty of such temerity. What next ? Must the
protecting band of bruisers be reorganized ? To his
horror he recognized that broad brow, those gleaming
eyes. The kerchief fell, and its owner, weeping,
babbled with foul breath of money. ''I aren't go
home!" the hapless creature whimpered. "Hurst,
of Curator Street, is watching. You won't be tormented
with me for long ; my health's gone, and my
heart broken." Had he fallen to this lowest ebb ?
Was this dreadful, bloated, blear-eyed man the once
brilliant, comely Brinsley Sheridan ? He looked like
an exhumed corpse. His dewy lips twitched as a dead
body's might at touch of a galvanic wire. His bright
eye was clouded now and again with a thick white
film, as the eye of a raven is. The disorder of his
dress corresponded with the decay of the rest —
mildewed cerements ! A disgust that he was powerless
to conceal swept over the Prince's features, as he
hurriedly produced such coin as he had about him.

'' Why wouldn't you go into Parliament ? " he
exclaimed. " Are things so bad ? My poor friend
you are not st — starving ? "

Sheridan smiled sadly. " I can't eat," lie said,
with a cadaverous remnant of drollery. " My
stomach's so economical that it refuses food. But
I can drink. Thanks. God bless you ! Where are
you going now ? Still partial to the old sports ? "

Going?" stammered the Regent, fearful that the
ghastly phantom might want to be seen with him.
Going ? Nowhere in particular."

Nowhere ! " echoed Sherry'. " Have you the
power ? How thankful I should be to be able to
go ' nowhere ' when convenient ! Again, God bless
you!"

'• I'll send McMahon tomorrow, to see what can be
done," the Prince called after him, relieved.

He slunk away among the groups of beggars — poor,
ragged, hunted animal ! To think that he should have
been venturesome enough to emerge into the light of
day ! The spectacle had set the Regent's teeth on
edge. What bad taste it was in this grisly ghost of
his own rowdy youth to force itself thus under his
nose ! Faugh ! How evil was its savour ! All gone
but Yere and Sherry; and he half rotten, though
alive. What a shock, and what a lesson ! His Royal
Highness shook himself, shuddered, and felt sick.
The abject creature must be seen to — saved from
starvation ; must not be allowed to go about thus to
distress the nerves of others. Were not lepers put
away — forbidden to approach the abodes of healthy

men ? So should these social wrecks be banished.
*she did not dare go home," he said. Where, then,
was he sojourning — under the arches by the river-side
in the purlieus of Drury Lane ? It was very shocking
and very horrible. His Koyal Highness wished
he had remained at Carlton House, or the Pavilion,
since everything outside those fairy retreats combined
to vex and to annoy.

Meanwhile, if the Prince was in low spirits, the
remainder of the company was not; for the programme
promised was excellent, and the enthusiasm
so great that even the street urchins without were
precociously indulging in a chicken-fight in the road,
to emulate the professionals within. The rude and
ferocious hammered were airing their taproom
knowledge and tableland wit, spitting forth their
unintelligent rancour and jealousy of the better sort ;
while the latter nodded knowingly, and held their
peace, eager and anxious to behold the new light,
whom the Champion had promised to produce. Second
on the list of set-tos was Scroggins and Caleb Kann.
That promised fun. The third was Cribbb and Spring.
That would be immense ; for Cribbb was getting old,
and rarely showed himself "in the buff," and it
would be truly prime to see him on the platform,
sparring with his new pupil. 3ut there was more in
store for the amateurs than they expected. Scroggins,
as all the world knows, was a sailor — not of his own

free will. A Dartford lad, he had conquered so many
millers of the neighbourhood— farm servants, bricklayers,
butchers, what not — that he had become a
terror to the peaceful; and when at length he
pummelled a constable of Sandford Green, the presiding
magistrate before whom complaint was made
deemed it prudent to send a press-gang of no less
than seventeen to convey him on board ship, in order
that he might indulge his milling propensities for the
future against the enemies of his country by sea.
But ruling passions may not so easily be quelled. On
his retm-n, after a long voyage, he straightway fell
out with a couple of di-lagoons at Woolwich; came
to London as a professional, and chose this occasion
of Cribbb's benefit to ascend the platform with Caleb.
Lord Osmington, of course, was present to back his
man, and, faithful to his promise, made a mighty
fuss about the amazing improvement, marvellous
dexterity, etc., etc. Indeed, Caleb did credit to both
master and patron ; for in the fourth round, Scroggins,
who was making brisk play with his left, incautiously
allowed the right side to be unguarded, and Ann,
seeing the mistake, caught his adversary such a crashing
blow on the jaw as sent him spinning off the platform.
As soon as he recovered breath, the outspoken
tar, forgetting the presence of Loyalty, manifested his
disapproval after the fine, free, unbridled fashion of
sea-dogs, and was speedily put down by my lord

Osmington, who was a past master of racy language.
*' Was ever anything so splendid as Caleb?" he exclaimed.
" Dash, dash ! never ! " If only that lily-livered
Sprig of Myrtle had not played the sneak, what
sport there might have been ! This Scroggins was a toy
in Caleb's hands ; while as for Cribbb's new candidate,
he was a mere baby in arms ; the other a professor.
Who was good enough to pit against this clever
fellow ? Would Mr. Eandal accept a challenge ?
There was no one else who was the least up to the
mark. How to get up a really stirring match ?

Cribbb and Spring were standing on the platform,
preparing to show their mettle; Caleb had not yet
gone down, but was standing there, too, awaiting an
answer to Lord Osmington's harangue ; when suddenly
a voice rang out from the other end of the building,
I am here, gentlemen, and ready to speak for
myself."

Cribbb started ; so did Caleb ; for it was the well-known
voice of Cy ; and presently the burly form of
Mr. Smalley was seen elbowing his way through the
excited mob in the direction of the platform. As he
stood and looked around, there was a general hiss.
His native air had browned his cheeks. His fine
figure, in its tight-fitting garments, was as perfect as
any Grecian statue. Who would have thought that
so godlike a casket should hold a craven spirit? Ah,
the coward! *'No, no; let us hear what he has to

I

say in excuse," whispered the amateurs. "Ill-health
won't do ; for, in sooth, he's as fresh as a cauliflower."

It was bitter to be suspected thus, to be hissed in
public by knowing Corinthians; but Cyrus stood
quietly, and waited till the sibilation ceased. He
was less accustomed to abuse than his Royal Highness,
'•' I'm not good at the gab, gentlemen," he began ina
low tone, twirling his hat uneasily ; but his voice
soon strengthened, for Yere's evil eye was fixed on
him, and he caught sight of Caleb grinning like a
hyena. 'i'd like to smash your ugly mug, you
scamp ! " Cyrus muttered, turning red.

You don't dare ! " retorted the other.

But every one was waiting. Petty recriminations ,.
like the tiffs of scullery wenches, were unworthy of
the sacrifice which Mr. Smalley had made. He had
immolated on the altar of honour his prospects of
futile happiness, and was here to do what his conscience
ordered.

I thought I had left the ring for ever," he said,
For private reasons, was resolved to fight no mores

Hoots and cries of "Yah!" Mr. Cribbb came to
the front in a fume, and imperiously demanded a
hearing.

"But events have occurred that compel me to
change my mind," continued Cy.

Bravo ! " from a few voices.

I have been charged with the most unhandsome

motives, branded even-with cowardice — I, who've
fairly won my spurs, as an honest young man should.
I conquered the Pink of Bow in open field." (Cries
of '* No ! " " Shut up ! " and yells.) ** None but the
low lot, whom I despise, can say 'twas otherwise."
(Uproar ; shouts of " A cross ! a cross ! ") " There
wasn't a cross about it ! " roared Cyrus above the
tumult, with kindling cheeks. '' Will you listen to
a plain man's statement ? " (Cries of " Deeds, not
words ! ") ** You shall have deeds, and be hanged to
you ; and lots of 'em, since it must be so."

Are you Englishmen or toads," blurted out
Thomas Cribbb, "to hound a man down, and then
refuse to let him speak ? Who's the coward now ?
Oo on, Cyrus, my boy, and never heed the vermin."

At any other time the outraged amateurs would
have insisted on knowing to whom the Champion —
in a general way so polite and refined — referred as
vermin and toads; and Lord Osmington was enchanted
at the prospect of a stiff gale of his own
brewing. But the youthful bloods — Shocks, macaroni,
dandies, fops — felt that, if his tongue was
roughened, the Champion's charge was just, and so
they quieted down, and permitted Cyrus to proceed.

If you remember the facts of the case, gentlemen,
they were these," he said. " In the sixth round of
the fight 'twixt me and the Pink I sent him flying
through the ropes ; and if a man leaves the ring,

sure* he's lost the battle ? In the eighth round,
just as I delivered ni}- blow, he dropped on his knees,
and the umpires considered it a foul — not that it
mattered ; for he was already beaten, because he'd
left the ring. * Why' wasn't it stopped then ? ' you
may say. Well, because we were both in good wind,
and wanted to show you sport. Ward, the Nestor of
the ring, was referee, and allowed us to go on. When
it ended at last, the Pink was pumped out ; there can
be no denying that. As to his saying he was tight,
that's gammon ; leastways, he seemed to me soberer
than usual. He found himself against the ropes, and
a blow would have finished him ; but I disdained the
advantage, and walked away, leaving him to go down
b}' himself, because, as I remarked before, I considered
him already beaten."

A murmur of satisfaction went round the assemblage.
There' was a good deal in what he said ; but these
magnanimous fancies always lead to trouble.

'' You accepted a challenge to fight again," observed
Lord Sefton. " Why, pray, did you back out of it ? "

'' For private reasons, which concern none here
present," Cy replied firmly. ''I could not have
dreamed that any were so dastardly as to assail my
honoris the matter ; but look at this ! " And Cy, in
indignation, produced a crumpled newspaper. *' Here's
a Morning Herald some one sent me to the north,
with two columns in it, penned by some sly, grovelling.

backbiting scoundrel, who's not above stabbing from
behind. Does he charge me with anything? Oh
dear, no ! All through there's not an abusive
syllable; but it's one long, black, ugly hint. If
Judas Iscariot were alive, I should say he wrote it.
Will any one support me ? My old patron's very
sweet on t'other, so I can't expect his help," the
young man continued, with a sneer.

"Demy ! you speak like a man," roared my lord
Sefton. " I'll back you for two hundred."

Thank you, my lord. Then it's a match," cried
the Sprig. " I know it's against etiquette for the
winning man to challenge the loser ; but this case is
unusual altogether."

He sighed; for he well knew what Abigel would
think when she discovered that he had broken his
promise, was actually himself the challenger. The
fatal newspaper had reached him in the inn at
Stratton, and, overwhelmed with humiliation, he had
put himself into the coach without a word to anyone,
and came straight to town. Sundry innuendoes
had reached him from time to time, but he had
dismissed them with contempt; but, as he conned
this cleverly worded article, each barb went home,
and stuck and quivered, and his soul leaped, as the
hapless bull does when the banderillos plant their
missiles. He did not dare tell Abigel that imperative
circumstances demanded his return, for awhile at least,

i

to his old Adam. She was altogether mimical to
the fistic art, since she settled to become the wife of
Cyrus ; ignorant of its code of honor* ; and would,
he knew, tiptilt her nose were he to attempt to argue
on the subject. A quarrel would arise. She would
say sharp words ; he might be tempted to retort.
Harsh phrases might be bandied that no apologies
could cover. Better to go and do what he had to do,
and then return to crave pardon. She could love
him very little if she were capable of remaining
adamant because he obeyed the call of honour. Alack,
what foolish prate ! Was he not too well aware that
she did not love him ? that she would possibly take
him because she could not help it, when the task
was satisfactorily accomplished which she had set
herself to carry to an end ? Was he not a blind
and besotted person to have craved to possess her on
such terms ? Was not Mr. Cribbb right in his forebodings
anent a future that was to begin under such
gloomy auspices ? No. Poor Cyrus hungered for
the moon, and would take Dian on any terms that
the divine lady chose to dictate. But, a 2^reux chevalier
in his big blundering heart, he could not retire to
bucolic joys with her, knowing that his name was
held up to obloquy at all the kens affected by the
Fancy ! That could not and should not be endured.
Honour first, and then a mundane paradise, or not,
as Destiny decreed. What a trouncing he would give

to that Caleb Kann for having gotten him into such a
hobble ! There should be no doubt about the beating
this time.

The match was made. Cribbb bloomed like a
full-blown sun, and quite forgot all about Spring,
his second candidate. The Corinthians were agog
with the delightful surprise. The two Champions
tossed up their hats into the air in proof that thej^
agreed to the arrangements made. Caleb stared at
the frowning brow and set jaw of his rival, and
marvelled at the cunning of his patron. He had
succeeded a merveille in luring the cur from his lair.
How very stern his brow was ! Could it be possible
that he did not know, on that previous memorable
occasion, that his adversary had taken too much ?
Was he no cur ? Pshaw ! These hectoring airs were
put on, and would be dissipated by-and-by. And
yet — what if he did not realize that Caleb was lusliy ?
But what was the use of surmising ? Here the man
was, dragged up to the scratch, as my lord promised ;
and here my lord would see that he remained till the
great affair was over. Meanwhile, the speech and
attitude of the Sprig had not been bad. Both were
bold and resolute, and commanded the half-unconscious
respect of the Pink of Bow.

Tip us a flapper, stranger," he said, by way of
breaking the ice and making things Pleasant.

Cy glanced at his outstretched bunch of fives, and

turned away. " You'll wear the anodyne necklace
yet, my pal," lie said, " and ride the three-legged
mare."

This was impertinent and unprofessional ; and the
Bristol chaps made such a fuss about their polish !
Coward or not, the man was a coxcomb. Mr. Ann
always deprecated, as in execrable form, jokes that
concerned the gallows.

END OF VOL. II.

PniNTEU l)Y WII, 1,1AM CLOWES A\U SUNS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. G. C. Cr= Co.

VOL. 11. 42

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

V.3

The person r'tr^ln^wll " rel»™

be causes '"f *'?['""* ^XoHllinois Library are the
owner by .he U";;^ ^ V„V and are pro.ec.ea by

i^^

^^

.rr-itp new due date
^j,,„ ,enewmg by phone, ante ne ^^^^

,„„i™is due date.

A Chronicle OF THE Regency.

THE HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD,

AUTHOR OF " LADY Grief," " MY LORDS OF Stroke,'
"IN HER majesty's KEEPING," ETC.

Chaque age a son esprit, ses plaisirs, et ses moeurs."

BOILEAU.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

|Dublisl)frs in ordinary to fttx fHajrstg tfjc ©ufcn.
1883.

(All rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill,

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Miss Eowe digs alone . . . . 1

II. The Tug of War . . . . 19

III. The Victor returns in Triumph . . . 46

lY. The Conspirators try Artifice . . 73

V. A Pilgrimage to the Wolds . . . 87

VI. The Sexton's Dwelling . . . 107

VII. Claremont 124:

VIII. Check 144

IX. A Forlorn Hope . . . . 171

X. Countercheck . . . . 190

XI. Cy risks his Bones . . . . 209

XII. More Pebbles . . ^ . . 239

XIII. My Lord makes up his Mind . . . 252

XIV. Yorkshire again . . . . 272

XV. Unexpected News . . . . 289

XVI. L'Envoi . . . . . 300

Chapter I.

MISS ROWE DIGS ALONE.

The new year arrived in a motley coat, a thing of

shreds and patches, black and white and grey and

green, the hue of hope ; even more like a harlequin

suit than is usually the robe of the deceitful elf who

comes to us all promises, and limps away dripping

with tears.

The rioting became so serious in the metropolis

that ministers, their houses being wrecked, were

awakened to the necessity of attending to the wishes

of the people. Committees of inquiry were appointed ;

the question of daily bread duly discussed, with the

result that a Corn Bill was brought in, fixing the price

of wheat at eighty shillings a quarter, and passed on

the 10th of March, 1815, despite the frantic opposition

of the Whigs indoors and out, and the prophetic

denunciations of perspiring demagogues.

VOL. 111. 43

The Prince was said never to have looked so well
for years as in the midst of the general hubbub of
this spring. Was it the effect of a newly imagined
casey of a deeper shade of brown? Or was it inconsequence
of secret satisfaction, in that the mob
were taking to assaults on M.p's instead of on him ?
No. It was something much more important than
riots, or even Jaseys, that caused his cheek to bloom
into natural pinkness, his chin to dimple as in
youth.

She was gone ! The Dreadful Woman was safe across
the Channel, zvith the blessed silvery streak between !
The aching molar was out. The Prince of Wales —
the first time for years — could breathe freely, could
drive anywhere without a constant dread of perceiving
a Blows linda prancing round the corner. Was that
not enough to make him gay ? But before delicious
day dreams were realized there had been many a slip
and instant of agony. The molar was deep-rooted,
and took a deal of pulling out. Whitbread tried
with all his might to keep the Princess in England ;
but she was so bent on freedom, that no argument
could move her. Indeed, she changed her line of
reasoning with an abruptness which, even in her,
was disconcerting. "I cannot bear," she wrote to
Whitbread, "to be a means to create disturbance."
This was something sweetly fresh, that engaged by
its novelty. To imploring Charlotte she wrote, *' My

dear, we cannot be of the smallest use to each other ;
why make pretence ? There is only one thing to be
done, and I coot. Parliament votes me money. If
I refuse, they say, What de devil does de woman want ?
We cannot make her husband like her, or de Queen
receive her; so we give her a sufficient sum to
maintain her rank elsewhere." *

And so she absolutely went at last ; and the stormy
element being removed from Court, things took a
tranquil turn ; and the Prince gave charming parties
fines to celebrate the " happy event," just as if it had
been a christening.

The new regime brought little satisfaction to poor
Charlotte, who felt herself utterly neglected, and pined
and lost her health, as all the tendrils of her warm
affections were frosted and severed. She had no
companion of her own age and sex now. Crawford
Lodge was damp — a cool grot embowered in thick
trees. Harsh granny pounced down from the Castle
hard by and lectured her ; the army of frumps and
forms exasperated her. No doubt she was unduly
forward, and needed a judicious system of repression ;
but the rule under which she lived now was one of
iron, suited rather to a felon than to a self-willed
damsel. For a while she bore her fate with patience,
but at last humbled herself so far as to apply to her
indifferent father for a relaxation of discipline. His

'^ This letter is authentic.

own burthen being lightened, he looked kindly on her
petition. She might come to London now and then,
even go once a week to a play or opera ; but her companions
henceforth were to be selected with extremest
care, and rash Sittings in hackney coaches rendered
impossible. The entrance to Warwick House towards
the lane was secured with bars. The only entrance
into the virginal retreat was through the courtyard of
Carlton House, from whose windows all who came
and went might be noted down and criticized. It
was given out that when the heiress presumptive
appeared in the royal box, no one was to applaud.
She was never to take the air in an open carriage.
Two attendant ladies and General Garth were to
occupy the other seats of the vehicle. The whole
thing became so ridiculous, that the General begged
permission to ride on horseback, in order to appear
less like awarded borrowed from a house of correction.
Meanwhile affairs abroad progressed — up to a
certain point — most satisfactorily. The magnificent
reception of the Allies in London had been followed
by a gathering of bigwigs at Vienna. Ke versing
the usually accepted arrangement, pleasure came
first, and business afterwards. All the pomp of
European diplomacy was busied in the Congress —
snipping the map of Europe, and distributing provinces
with inch-rule and scissors — when an explosion took
place which scattered the arbitrators. While the

princes and envoys of the showy conclave were twisting
their rope of sand, the news arrived that the eagle had
left his cage, that the course of mankind had put himself
at the head of an army, that he had shown so
little consideration for the feelings of the higgins as
to perch once more upon the throne of France. As
the great Napoleon placed his foot upon French soil,
he remarked, '' Voila le Congres dissent ; " and it was
so. But birds who leave their cages must be caught
again. The world beheld the unparalleled spectacle
of a vast confederacy in arms against a single
individual. Diplomacy vanished, war reappeared
upon the scene, and England, trusting no more to
the slippery policy of a Talleyrand or a Metternich,
boldly took that lead in the ensuing contest which
was hers by right of previous action. When he left
Elba the fortunes of Bonaparte where by no means
desperate. His fate hung upon the possibility of
warding off hostilities until he should have time to
organize. Delay might have saved him, but Lords
Castlereagh and Wellington — emissaries of destiny —
decided otherwise. The victory at Waterloo finished
the struggle at a blow.

As may be conceived, London went mad again with
joy. It had been awful to think that, after all the
misery the people had endured already in consequence
of protracted difficulties on the Continent, a new war
was to be inaugurated, that might drag on for years,

as the previous one had done; and the suddenness
with which gathering clouds had been dispersed produced
a feeling of intense relief. Everybody shook
hands and drank wine with everybody else. The
metropolis was illuminated. Drawing-rooms were
held and balls given ; and in the universal expansion
of soul and distribution of comforting sops, Charlotte,
the recluse, was a gainer. She accompanied the
Queen to Brighton, danced under the golden dragons
the ballroom of the Pavilion like any other girl,,
was even allowed to walk on the Steine, and, growing
juvenile, took to perambulating the shores and
romantic corners of Eottingdean in the company of
a fine young man. Shall we now digress and enter
on a disquisition concerning the human heart and
the elasticity of youth, which will rebound and beat
with idiotic ardour the moment the chilling hand of
repression is removed ? No ; we will refrain. Suffice
it to observe, that under the reviving influence of sighs
and soft nothings, breathed by a handsome gentleman,
Charlotte's cheek grew rosy as of sore, and her
gay laughter echoed along the beach, as though she
had never been a prisoner. She looked upon Leopold
of Saxe-Coburg, and thought his companionship
delightful. He was a "Waterloo hero, and every one
was building altars before the victors of that immortal
fight. ** They were modern Hotspur ! " cried Madam
Grundy, as she gathered them under her wing.

These coffee-house cornets, morocco-booted bucks,
were as impatient as their horses, and thought no
more of running their noses into fire than the moth
that dances round the candle. The dear silly fellows
cantered after the foe with as highbred an aplomb as
they would use in pursuing a fine woman in the Park
with the chance of a brother's bullet ; they took an eagle
as quietly as a pinch of rappee, and upset an enemy
as carelessly as they would floor a watchman or
kick a sheriff's officer downstairs. Madam G. was
charmed that the curled darlings — lords of acres,
bearers of ancient names — should hide indomitable
courage under an amusing affectation of effeminacy.
Charlotte did not like sham effeminacy but she
admired courage, and, like many an ardent and headstrong
female, longed to be mastered. In the tall and
handsome Leopold she recognized her master, and
loved him. No more tantrums and vinegar discussions
as with the snipe-legged Orange. She gibed at
Leopold, and played him hoyden tricks, as was her
nature to do ; but when he looked injured or sentimental,
she was overcome with woe, made pretty
moses of contrition. He corrected her sententiously,
like a governess ; but, dear me, what a difference it
makes as to who delivers the sermons ! When the
reverend Ezekiel preaches, you, madam, drink in
each prosy word (while others yawn), thinking that
never did such pearls of wisdom drop from human

tongue ; and all the time he is prating dreary nasal
platitudes. If those who love us did not don coloured
glasses, where should you and I he ? Prophets, weare
told, are unhonoured in their own country. Well,
true prophets are scarce. Let us, the counterfeit,
rejoice and be exceeding glad that our mothers,
maiden aunts, should think their fowl is turkey when
it is only goose. In the charmed eyes of Charlotte,
Leopold was nothing less grand than a peacock. She
went out of her way to perform hoydenisms for the
purpose of being reproved. The dub-eyed, pallid
girl with a brown-paper complexion, and too redundant
a figure for her age, became quite pretty again, with
a subdued and reticent manner, that sat well on an
heiress presumptive ; and corkscrew-visaged granny
was delighted with her success, forgetful that it was
to interesting Leopold, and not to her, that was due
the welcome change.

With Charlotte, out of sight was not out of mind.
All these events were duly recorded in folios of
blotted and smeared manuscript, and transmitted by
post to Battle Magna. At one moment the romantic
Princess declared that meditation and an early death
was the best of futures; that the only comfortable
sphere was somewhere in ether, where spirits hover
unceasingly, like the cherub who visited St. Theresa
and flew about because unable to sit. Hours of idleness
were spent in transcribing poesy, bits from Lord

Byron's last effusion, wherein Corsairs and Giaours
frowned upon mankind and disgorged a godlike discontent.
Then came a change. This poor abused
mass of rubbish, yclept a planet, had its good points.
Humanity was piebald, not completely black. There
were hopes for it in a dim future. There was one
that had recently come under her notice, who was
entrancingly superior to everybody else, whose deportment
showed to what extent of improved condition
a baser essence might some day aspire. He was
slim, olive-complexioned, with a long nose, and brows
just like the Corsair, and he talked like a book. Nay,
he was the living embodiment of that enchanting
creation Manfred. If only Abigel could see and be
privileged to listen, etc., after the fashion of damsels
who are in love.

At another time Abigel would have laughed at all
this and have been immensely amused, but her heart
was too sick for laughter, and she read all the outpourings
of her friend with an accompanying commentary
of sniffs. Human love, faith — pooh ! There
was no such thing. Some people didn't pretend to
any such foolishness, and theirs was the wiser part.
Others glibly chattered and looked unutterable
devotion, and swore oaths and vowed vows with such
a semblance of genuineness as to deceive and undo
the unwary. But they where brazen pots emitting
sound, empty within. Love ? Ha, ha ! Faith ?

Ha, ha, ha ! At the mere consideration of the inflated
Bugaboos, Abigel clasped her hands behind her shapely
head and laughed an ugly laugh, which hurt her lips
and seared her breast — an acid cachinnation.

Who should be a judge, if she were not ? That she
elected to give her energies to Leoline was nothing.
It concerned only herself, the waif, and she looked
for no reward beyond a pleased consciousness of merit
and a pale satisfaction in that an appointed task
was being carried out as thoroughly as circumstances
permitted, if not successfully. But what was to be
said about the great hulking fellow who had entangled
her in a sort of promise, and on whom, in consequence
of his apparent single-mindedness, she was actually
beginning to look with a species of something or other
that was not quite love ? There had seemed something
so unutterably tender in the unquestioning
abnegation of the athlete, who, out of pure, unadulterated
affection for an unworthy object, had
quietly laid by his cherished ambitions, and occupied
himself with a quest in which he could have no
individual interest. Is not Jacob's servitude for
Laban's daughter a touching history? Well, the
self-sacrifice of Cyrus was more heroic, because, for
the sake of his love — who appreciated it, though she
did not tell him so — he promised altogether and forever
to bury his ambition. 'Twas not a case of
serving for awhile, then resuming your place and

being master. Jacob, I dare say, made Eacbel pay
for it, twitted her for all be bad undergone, and when
sbe asked for a new yasbmak snapped bis fingers.

Cy's case was different from the patriarch's. He
was never to be master, so far as the resumption of
ambitious attempts were concerned. Like a faithful
and obedient vassal, he was to do what he was bid,
and bark or wag his tail in obedience to a warning
gesture. All this being arranged to the satisfaction
of all parties, was it not outrageous that all of a
sudden, without warning, he should put off his devotion
as he might a spencer, his obedience like a waistcoat,
and walk calmly away in shirt and breeches ?
Was it not insulting, disgraceful, abominable,
double-faced — too horrid for words to picture ? Who
had asked him to express so much — to be so glib in
promises ? It was horrible to be thus overreached —
to feel that you have been made a fool of ; that you
have obligingly condescended to accept professed
service as a fervour to the professor, just to save him
from suicide, and that he has then turned round with
a grimace and a derisive guffaw.

I will di-aw a veil over Abigel's behaviour, after the
abrupt departure of her cousin for the second time. I
am afraid she was a coquette, and could appreciate the
flattering attentions of dangling swains, and be resentful
when they set themselves free. It must be confessed,
too, that a foreboding had come upon her of the

difficulty of the quest. The maid of Dombey considered
herself called, and marched straight to the goal
in triumph. What if she had been repulsed, had met
with insuperable difficulties ? Would she not have been
a laughing-stock, degraded in her own conceit ; have
gone back to her village to be jibed at by chawbacons ?
To attempt a task and succeed is one thing ; to fail is
another. An inkling of a possibility had once or twice
dawned on Miss Kowe latterly, that the missing links
in the chain would never be found ; that the peerage of
Northallerton would never be revived ; that Leo was
right to be so cool about it, since he was doomed to
die in the obscurity which had been his birthright.
In event of failure, how would she herself be affected ?
Pentecost, in the nature of things, was not long for
this world. So soon as she was gone. Lord Osmington
would give free vent to his malice, and eject her niece.
What would become of her ? Was she to run to
Charlotte and say, " Here I am, a destitute orphan,
who has made a fool of herself. Provide for me " ?
Certainly not. Miss Eowe was as proud as any of
the blue-blooded, and would perish first. If Leo would
say, '^ You have lost your protector for my sake, come
to my arms ! Love and poesy and a crust ! " — At
this juncture in her self-communing. Miss Eowe
passed trembling fingers over her hot cheeks and
burst into tears. Would that phenomenon never be
grilled — never give up kicking ? Poesy and the crust

being altogether out of the question, there remained
the pis-aller. A modest farm and Cyrus. Why not,
after all ? That might he possible a long time hence,
when the phenomenon was dead and the quest abandoned;
a fate to be accepted with benignant condescension
and Christian resignation. But now, Jacob,
after only a few weeks, was grown weary of his service !
Fickle, inconstant monster ! Abandoning the solution
of a riddle which grew more and more puzzling, he
had gone back, without even asking permission, to
his vulgar fisticuffs — after showing such unexpected
acumen, too — and had left Ariadne to muddle her
brains alone. Abigel was furiously indignant against
the deserter ; for how was she to be sure that he had
only deserted — that he had not gone over to the
enemy as on a previous occasion ? It was a mercy,
though, that he had no letter to take with him. Abigel
made another discovery, but fortunately after the
departure of the pugilist.

The creeping months had crawled slowly. She was
wandering listlessly in the crumbling apartments,
wondering whether any one would answer the advertisement
; whether any one yet lived who could answer
it ; whether the monument had not been broken up
and used in the restoration of the church. The gossip
of Kimpton's friend seemed to point to some other
method of destroying it. There had been no mural
alterations at the manor-house. Its tumbledown

condition was proof enough of that. What, then,
could have become of the slab, after it had been
carried in green baize like a bagatelle table ? Having
nothing else to do, and being afflicted with tablet on
the brain, Miss Eowe began systematically at the top
of the eastern turret, and rummaged with conscientious
precision. The owls and bats that had
dwelt there so long undisturbed wheeled round her
head with discordant outcries. Why could this restless
girl not leave them in peace, without stirring all
that dust? The breath of time and of decay had
blasted all in those upper chambers. The piles of
lumber littered down, falling to pieces at a touch.
Not a vestige of a freestone tablet was to be found.
How unlikely that it should ! Probably it had been
cast into the brawling Fosse, where trout had studied
the precious words, ere the trickling water had effaced
them.

It is a hard thing' for an energetic mind to remain
fallow. If Miss Eowe wandered in the village, the
hags would run out of their burrow and cackling
crave for news. Madam Higgs would pipe shrilly of
the reward she was to have for valuable information.
Sally Scraggs would drop hints of whiskey. The
blacksmith would look up from his work inquiringly.
She felt in some sort an impostor, for there was no
news or likelihood of any. How long ago it seemed
since the advertisement was penned ! When you talk

a matter over with another you seem to be making
progress, or may cheat yourself into a belief that you
are; but in solitude that is impossible. There was
no progress, or possibility of making any.

Having continued the systematic search from floor
to floor, Abigel found herself poking about again in the
library. Just as if she did not know by heart every
paper in Lady Olivia's chest ; every medicine phial in
the ebony cabinet.

Listlessly she ransacked every drawer, for there
was nothing else to do. There were the old bobbins
how she hated bobbins — the old-fashioned silk
racks, with the silks of many hues employed in those
astonishing specimens of tambour-work that had
grown old and bilious in the drawing-room. That
little cabinet with jaques of lapis lazuli ! Vainly she
had tried her fingers once before on its carefully
adjusted doors. Why, they flew open now when she
shook it ! Strange ! More documents, old bills,
receipts, a bundle of recipes for currant wine and
other secrets of housewifery. With a palpitating bosom
she turned them over. If by chance — oh, if by

chance Yet, no ; 'twas vain to expect to find

anything of importance. The letters which were given
to Lord Osmington by Cyrus — the double-dyed traitor,
who could calmly jilt his love and be false to his
promised word — had been placed where they were
found by Ohvia, who justly gauged the faithlessness

of man. There was no chance of hitting upon anymore.
She must not cheat herself by such a hope.
Heavens ! what was this ? A letter on yellow paper.
Abigel's heart beat so wildly that she scarce could
breathe, her eyes swam, and she was compelled to
brush the tears from them ere she could read.
Signed " James Jarvis ! " Absolutely James Jarvis I
To his brother Archibald, as the other one had
been. He seemed always to have been writing to
brother Archibald, who, after all, never did aught for
him. In literal earnest he had asked for bread, and
been given a stone. What could the letter contain ?
The name so anxiously sought for ? Alack, no ! But
it was interesting and important. Odd that there
should be no mention of such a document in the diary.
It complained, much in the same strain as the one
destroyed, of poverty ; begged for alms to buy clothes
for a third child, and to help him to remove his family
to England (he did remove his family to England,
then !) ; and ended by sajdng that little Miles and
Dorcas were growing like their uncle.

Miles and Dorcas ! Miles ! Miles was the missing
name. How provoking that he should not have
mentioned the place to which he intended to remove
his family ! No need to seek out the monument now,
and yet — something might be gleaned from it as to
where the family had settled. Archibald must have
been a hard man — harder than she supposed — not to

have established James on a prosper footing when he
migrated back to England. Perhaps not so. It
must not be forgotten that though accused of murder,
the fugitive was never tried. Was not that sufficient
reason for continued concealment '?

Miles Jarvis ! With a feeling of deep thankfulness
in that patience was being rewarded, and that lost
links were dropping one by one into her hand, Miss
Eowe put the document carefully away in a little
casket, with the diary and marriage lines and other
precious things, and sat down to write to Leoline.

That young gentleman lingered for a few months
longer in England, through the agency of Madam
Cotton, who observed to the Princess, " What is the
use of offering rewards for a special object if the man
chiefly concerned is gadding who knows whither ? If
no answer is vouchsafed, let him join us in six months'
time, when we proceed to Italy."

The Princess, delighted as she was to be departing,
acquiesced at once. '' Mon ami ! "she said, "join mea
real undoubted earl, and so I will have one of the
peerage left to lean upon ! "

She bade farewell to the protege much as she had
parted from her daughter, devoured by a longing
for liberty. Madam Ambrosia and Lady Charlotte
Campbell were the only old friends whom she took
with her, though Sir William Gell, Monk Lewis, and
others dutifully saw her off.

VOL, III. 44

Abigel was in high delight over the new clue that
she had found, and was writing to Leoline, bidding
him not despair, but be of good cheer, when a
packet arrived from Charlotte, wherein she mentioned
that London was agog about the great prize-fight.
"What prize-fight ? The coming contest between the
Sprig of Myrtle and the Pink of Bow. For Auld
Lang Syne she, the writer, had actually hazarded
some little bets upon the Sprig with uncles York and
Sussex. Would not Abby come up to see old friends
and witness her cousin's victory ?

Miss Kowe flung the invitation on the floor, and,
laying her head on the table, sobbed bitterly.

CHAPTEK II.

THE TUG OF WAR.

The great and long-expected and so frequently
deferred day dawned at last, which was to see an
honest encounter between the Pink of Bow and Sprig
of Myrtle, so as to set the vexed question at rest forever
as to which was the better man. A week before
the day fixed upon, a sparring match was held at the
Fives-courts by the flickering light of oil lamps, that
amateurs might gather a hint or two about the menon
whom they had staked their money, the takings
sat the door being set aside as consolation-stakes for
the loser in the grand battle. Lord Osmington made
no secret of his partiality for Caleb. With an unnecessary
garnish of expletives, he swore he was a
picture, a perfect animal, devoid of blemish ; and so
great was the influence of the President of the club
over less-exalted Corinthians, that popular opinion
followed his dictum, and the betting remained steady
^t seven to four on the Pink. But there was a look

of calm complacency on the visages of Cy and Cribbb
that was not without its effect on the knowing ones.
Thomas might be prejudiced in favour of his friend ;
but he was long-headed, and knew what he was
about. Moreover, Gentleman Jackson and old Joe
Ward, who were not so biassed, appeared hopeful.
Although they knew better than to roar and howl and
blaspheme, as Mendoza's faction did, they showed no
fear for the honour of the Bristol school ; and a fact
leaked out which spoke volumes, namely, that Jackson,
the prudent, had borrowed fifty pounds for the
purpose of risking it on Cyrus.

Caleb Kann was incapable of comprehending the
quiet attitude of his antagonist. With him to be
confident was to be noisy. Although resolved to
behave himself to the best of his powers and wear
a curb, he could not help bragging. The temptation
to cut a dash was more than nature could withstand.
He showed himself on the " Grand Strut " in
the Park in garb of wondrous cut and hue ; made
believe to consider the Sprig beneath his notice ; even
sent an undertaker to the Lion in the Borough
Market, out of bravado, to measure Mr. Smalley fora
coffin.

"Brag's a good dog, but Holdfast's a better," was
Cribbb's remark over this bit of facetiousness ; for no
good ever came of fascinating.

"For all your bounce," said old Joe Ward, *' I

know a little cove, not above nine stone, who'd shut
you up in a liffey."

The lights became blue with blasphemy (Ward and
Caleb chanced to have met at a lushing crib), as the
Pink insisted upon knowing who the little cove was,
that he might devour him, bones, body, and breeches.

' The little cove," returned the veteran, slyly, " sits
in Bow Street ; and if you give me any nonsense, I'll
give you a chance of seeing what he can do."

Whatever was Mendoza about," exclaimed Gentleman
Jackson, " to allow his candidate to play such
antics ? "

That worthy, as it happened, was only too thankful
that his restive charge should be satisfied with a harmless
whisking of the tail. He was docile in the matter
of diet — tolerably so — was in first-rate condition,
and the Hebrews were cockatoo accordingly. There
was deep and animated discussion as to where the
merry business was to take place. Old Ward was for
Kit's Cot House in Berks, a verdant and convenient
spot; but then the Berkshire magistrates had set
their faces of late against pugilistic contests, and
were not likely to waive objections where the
notoriously rowdy Rannn was concerned. It was
rather a blow to the amateurs when the Grand Signor
declined to attend. The meeting with Sheridan had
given him a turn, and disgusted him with the past.
My lady Hertford, too, disapproved of the Fancy, and

took her royal friend to realize at the Pavilion to
avoid the solicitations of Vere. Her ladyship, indeed,
preached propriety after the fashion of a Maintenon,
and deplored, with many head-shaking, that dear
Yarmouth should patronize boxers.

It was finally decided that the battle should take
place at Kingston, and many, taking advantage of
the glorious July sunshine, resolved to make the
pilgrimage by water. So, from an early hour, the
Thames was as crowded with boats as if some aquatic
fete was on hand ; while as for the road, it was one
long stream of vehicles of every shape and colour.
And what spirits all were in ! What a bandying of
rough jape and broad rejoinder ! Even Lord Islington,
who had settled to drive down his man in a
phaeton, deigned to enter into the spirit of the scene.
The curricle of an amateur, who had presumed to
take the lead, broke down in front of him, and there
was a general jeer of derision from costard-mongers
and others in that he should miss the fun. " No
matter," laughed the gentleman. " My upper benjamin
is thick and heavy ; will your lordship]) let me
place it in your phaeton ? "

Certainly ; throw it up. But how will you get
it again ? "

Quite easily, my lord, and many thanks," returned
the dandy; "for, with your kind permission,.
I mean to go inside it."

Think not that the beauteous sex disdained to
grace the scene, although 'twas to look upon a
mannish sport. Never was such an ambulating
flowery parterre. Miss Sarah Hurley, the Cyprian
(better known as "Sail of the Spice Islands "), was
present in a pony chaise, wearing a new bonnet
sprouting with dahlias ; fresh from threshing hemp
at Bridewell. And with her Bet Beastly, the rag
wench; and Poll Chapman, the cinder-sifter, so
celebrated for running in a smock. The gipsy
queen, too, of the flue-fakers was just behind in a
donkey-tandem, escorted by a bodyguard of thin-legged
gentry of the forked-radish pattern, kindly
togged. And bogle-eyed Jem, of course, on his
barrow ; and dirty Suke ; and chaffing Peter, the dust-man's
oracle. And round the corner of the Pig and
Tinder box — known to the outer world as the Elephant
and Castle — was assembled a goodly host of excellent
company, enjoying a shove in the mouth. Sam
Shanks, who is called by pals the " Duke of Limbs,"
was there, passing round, with genial liberality, a pot
of heavy wet for the delectation of Ned Trollop, the
tripe man, and Tim Ferret, the scavenger, and their
ladies and grown-up daughters ; while Slippery Kate,
the oyster-vendor, resplendent in best clothes, was
standing glasses of daffy with the manner of a real
duchess. It is needless to say that the other ranks
of society were equally well represented. The Dukes

of York and Sussex were tooled down on my lord
Yarmouth's private coach ; while a foreign prince or
two were piloted by Alvanley.

Cy, by advice of the sagacious Champion, had
taken up his quarters at the Stag of Kingston three
days previous to the important date, not wishing to
spoil the good effects of country air by breathing the
polluted atmosphere of London. The Stag had a
right to rear its horns on high; for never since its
foundation stone was laid had it taken in finer
company. Squires from the southern counties were
present by the score. The best beds were aired for
his Grace of Beaufort and my lord Worcester ; while
Lord Sefton and Prince Esterhazy had to be content
with shake downs, like ordinary untitled mortals.

The spot chosen for the rencontre was a field
between Kingston and Thames Ditto, and there a
ring was formed of thirty feet diameter. A tiny tent
was erected for each hero, after the fashion of the
knights of old ; but instead of a shield hanging outside,
a little flag was hoisted, made of coloured silk.
Mendoza and Scroggins appeared to pick up Ann,
each armed with a sponge and bladder of rum-and-water;
while for Cyrus, Eandal and Spring were
nominated seconds, with Cribbb as referee. And a
splendid figure was that last-named gentleman, ina
brand-new cutaway of palest snuff colour, a drab
castor turned up with scarlet; the glittering belt

about his ^Yaist ornamented with a couple of silver
fists in front, flanked by large circular plates.

Before the commencement of operations the
Champion addressed the seconds, bidding them show
that the strictures which it was unhappily beginning
to be the fashion to cast upon the noble art, were
mendacious and unjust. " Prove yourselves gentlemen,"
he said. 'eon the men setting-to, retire to
your corners decently ; and when time is called, bring
'em quick to the scratch. No shabby tricks, and don't
employ bad language, or make grimaces at your
opponents." This was a long speech for Mr. Cribbb,
and required a flash of lightning to wash it down.

What is that yell of applause — that rush and
waving of hats and handkerchiefs ? It is my lord
Osmington with the favourite, who takes his ogle
from his neck and flourishes it round his head.

''He's a game one is the Pink of Bow," shouts an
enthusiast, " his complexion milk and roses ; a parish
nut to crack ! Seven to four on the Pink ! "

"Where lurks the Sprig of Myrtle?" bawls an
adherent of the rival candidate. " What means this
diffidence, as if he was here against his will ? Does
he feel that his chance is a poor one ? It really does
seem as if he were showing the white feather."

No fear," retorts indignant Ward. " He'll be up
when wanted."

"He is in his tent," explains the Champion, "to

avoid the July sun; but as fit as a fiddle for all
that."

"In his tent? What a queer fancy ! Instead of
arriving in state, surrounded by swells, to creep
hither unawares ! Show your mug ! Don't be
ashamed of it ! " roars an admirer. " Come out
and let us look at you."

With calm deliberation the Sprig issued from his
tent, and stepped, like another Achilles, on to the
turf of slaughter. The odds on the Pink were seven
to three, till Cyrus, entering the ring, tossed off hi
coat and threw his hat within the ropes. His form,
his modest deportment, and his dress occasioned a
buzz of approval. He wore laced boots, a pair of
white doeskin breeches, and silk stockings, tied at the
knee with knots of yellow ribbon, carrying each a
sprig of myrtle. A broad web-band was round his
waist, with three buckles to it — a tip from his trainer,
who always wore one. He showed a firmness of
flesh, clear and speckless, which proved nothing to
have been omitted to bring him to the apex of his
powers; and people began to whisper that the
Champion was a leery covey, cunning as to keeping
matters dark ; one who knew well what he was about.
A few seconds later, the Pink stood opposite, with a
self-satisfied smirk ; and the knowing ones, seeing the
two stripped together for the first time by light of
day, declared that the latter was overstrained ; for to

the experienced eye the insertion of one muscle into
another was too plainly visible. It might savour of
hypercriticism, but he seemed to be fined down too
much ; and the doubtful impression produced by
contrast with his rival was not improved by the
circumstance that when he threw his hat into the
ring, it was caught by the wind and blown out again
a bad omen. Nevertheless, he was a fine-looking
fellow in his dark cinnamon breeches and bro^ii
stockings and brilliant pink ogle bound about his
waist ; and Mendoza might well be proud of him. So
bumptious was he, that he tried to make a speech —
indecorous, unprecedented proceeding — which had to
be nipped in the bud. Since the last encounter, he
averred, he had learnt a thing or two, which he
would display before an hour was out for the gratification
of Corinthians.

Two may improve in science," rebuked the Champion.
" Swaggerers and swashbucklers are worthy of
contempt. Hold your tongue, and get to business."

Both peeled so well that the match looked extremely
promising ; for 'twould have been hard to find two
more magnificently muscular specimens of the fistic
gladiator, a pair more perfect in health and condition.
Urged thereto by Gentleman Jackson, they cordially
shook hands, expressing a hope that the best man
might win ; and as Caleb took his place, he was
sorely exercised as to his rival. The white feather

was not visible now. What did he mean by looking
60 confident ? Was he a coward, taking heart of
grace because he could not help himself ; or did that
reserved manner of his denote a certainty of victory ?
At setting to, both sought to avoid first play,
squaring at one another, with bodies well thrown
back, watching the minutest movement of each other's
iris. The length of Cy's arms, kept well in front,
made him exceedingly difficult to touch, and the
stillness was intense as the combatants moved
cautiously to and fro without striking. Presently
Caleb, growing tired of this, hit straight for the lobe
of the liver ; but Cy leapt nimbly back two or three
feet in the Beecher style, and won a burst of applause
for his lightness. Several minutes of artful sparring
followed, and the Pink began to be certain that he
had underrated his rival's powers as well as his
determination. He was vastly improved in science —
no doubt of it — not to be caught with chaff. That
inscrutable manner of his was mighty queer, though.
During the first few rounds nothing special happened,
and a few murmured that this was science run to
seed ; but these were speedily hushed down. Though
both commenced to pipe a little, they stood firm ; yet
the betting showed signs of changing ; for the back of
the Pink was damp, while the entire skin of the Sprig
was suffused with a ruddy glow. Taking the hint,
the speculations of the Fancy were squared accordingly,

and Lord Osmington cursed under his breath,
and called his favourite names.

Don't be all night ! " exclaimed Miss Sarah
Hurley. " Give him one on the pimple ! "

'ray!" cried her friend Poll, the cinder-sifter.
It's awful slow. A good chatterton hit now —
summit to derange the attic ! "

Look alive ! " chorused the impatient ladies.

That the Queen of Beauty should bestow the guerdon
on a successful knight is becoming ; that she should
bellow slang in a gin voice, and create a diversion
from important matters, is not. The Corinthians
determined then and there that from lovely woman,
at all events, there should be no unseemly interruption.
I regret to chronicle that Sail of the Spice
Islands was incontinently dragged out of her chariot
and placed astride of a patient ass that, unyoked
from harness, was innocently browsing on savoury
thistles, the which aggrieved and startled quadruped
flung up his hoofs and galloped off, with the
delinquent clinging about his neck, bawling for
mercy. Stern lessons are sometimes necessary as
examples for the body politic. All agreed that the
punishment was deserved, and so none assisted the
ill-used fair, who in due course was borne, with
dahlias wildly waving, to the end of the field, and
shot on to a bed of nettles.

Caleb made play ; but Cyrus stopped him in good

style, returning with his left but short. The latter
seemed now to think that it was time for something
more lively; so he commenced a vigorous assault,
and, closing gradually up, kept his adversary employed
to the full, while, like a skilful tactician, he
was stealing imperceptibly closer and closer. When
he deemed his distance sufficiently well measured, he
feinted with his left, and landed a tremendous blow
over Caleb's eye, cutting him to the bone, drawing
the blood in a torrent, and knocking him clean off his
legs. Thus early in the contest were decided two
important points, namely, first blood and first knockdown
blow. Loud shouting arose among the spectators.
Mendoza looked glum; Cribbb rubbed his
hands ; Lord Osmington ground his teeth ; Lord
Sefton cried " Hooray ! " and the betting changed to
even.

The fearful force of that sledge-hammer blow
showed its effect on Caleb, who came to the scratch
looking confused, his eyes blinking strangely, the
crimson stream making fantastic shapes about his
face and body. He muttered something incoherent,
and came on. Cyrus was not one to let slip an
advantage fairly earned, but vigorously pressed forward
to improve his success. He landed a stinging
hit on Caleb's nob ; but, his foot slipping, was late
in getting off, and received a counter-hit. The
men caught hold, Lancashire fashion, and, after a

tremendous tussle, with throbbing veins and sinews
like cords, Cyrus went down undermost. Lord
Osmington yelled like a maniac, ^' Go it, Ann !
Go it. Pink of Bow ! The day will be yours yet ;
if not, 'twill be the worse for you." And Cyrus, as he
came up to time, thought inwardly, " Strange that he
should be so inveterate ! He'd like me to be left dead
upon the field ! " The excitement became uproar.
Encouraged by his patron's voice, lashed by ominous
murmurs, Caleb came up fiercely, and led off at Cy.
Touching him lightly, he got away from the return,
and swiftly put in his right, catching Cyrus on the
ribs. The latter was countered, and Ann, then
jumping in, landed a heavy nobler. Some sharp
exchanges took place, and both went down at the
close, Caleb looking haggard and anxious. Betting
remained even ; but Ann was still most asked for.

'' Splendid ! magnificent ! " roared his Grace of
Beaufort, who forgot his gout and his dignity, and
danced with eagerness upon the sward. "Your lordship
should look blue ! " he gibed at Vere. '' T'other's
as fit as ever; your man's growing silly."

Indeed, there was more than enough to make the
Pink look foolish. He had boasted overmuch and
Swaggered prodigiously ; had pitied his patrons in that
the match was too uneven to provide real sport ; now
he was steadily getting the worst of it, though both
stood arm to arm with conspicuous gallantry, neither

as yet conceding an inch of contested ground. Caleb
came up, bleeding badly from the face ; Cyrus was
blowing like a cow in a clover field. Might the tables
be turned yet ? Cyrus went straight for his man,
closed in, and got his head in chancery, intending to
fib him well ; but Caleb, in desperation, seized Cyrus
by the hand, and, with a clever twist, threw his
opponent heavily. Did ever such a yelling and
screeching issue before from human throats ? Men
and women crushed forward and buffeted to get a
better place. Spice Island Sail, with bonnet wrecked
and dahlias drooping, forgot the lesson, and cursed
with brazen lungs. Many watches and purses changed
owners in the scrimmage ; the booty being whisked
away in little carts, stationed to receive deposits.

And so the fight went on for fifteen rounds, one
occasionally scoring, and then the other. In the
sixteenth, slogging was the order of the day. Cyrus
started with a severe one from the left, and got
countered by the Pink, who in turn received a
stunning blow under the ear, which sent him to grass.
But he was not done yet, though Cribbb screamed in
glee, 'ego on, my boy, my angel! You can't lose
now." Of a truth, the Pink, so gay and debonair
a while ago, appeared a piteous spectacle. Staggering,
but game, he rose from his second's knee and
felt blindly for his foe. His grand attitude made
him look a perfect gladiator, despite his punishment,

and a murmur of approbation rose from all except
Lord Osmington, who glared and bit his nails. Cyrus
again got his right on Caleb's eye, causing blood to
flow afresh ; but 'twas from the old cut. He was
touched in return, and almost instantly, by a cross
buttock of exquisite skill, Caleb tumbled him over.

*' By the Lord ! " bawled Yere, '' that was sublime.
If you do it again you'll win ! "

'' Will he ? " gibed Cribbb, forgetting the rank of the
speaker. '* That he won't. It's a matter of minutes.
His bolt is shot."

How long it lasted ! Time, laying down his scythe,
seemed to have taken a place as spectator. How
well both pugilists faced one another, exhausted both,
but each breathing defiance. Cyrus showed signs of
distress, but Eandal encouraged him between every
round with prudent words of counsel. Caleb was
evidently "going to pieces," the amateurs declared;
but, bolstered with strong waters, he maintained his
bulldog pluck. He would not allow himself or his
seconds to whisper of defeat, repeating over again ashe
tottered from his corner, " Who'd have thought
he was no cur? But I'll do him — do him yet." For
several rounds more he staggered uj) to be knocked
down, though Cyrus would fain have let him be.

But Cribbb would not hear of it. '^ We had enough

trouble last time," he said. " Don't let's have more

garbage from scoundrels in the newspapers."
VOL. III. 45

''No, indeed," Cyrus exclaimed, with angry bitterness.
"For honour's sake I'm here, for the last time.
For honour's sake we'll settle it once and for ever."

The rubicon was passed, the battle altogether in
his hands. Caleb came reeling again and again to
meet his doom, and went heavily each time to earth
with a slight push. He was aware now that hope
was past, but would not strike his colours so long ashe
could rise to his feet. At length, exhausted nature
gave in, and in one hour and ten minutes he was
knocked out of time, and, beaming with exultation,
Cribbb threw up the sponge.

As Caleb was borne senseless to his tent. Lord
Osmington's wrath broke into a torrent of abuse.
"Dash, dash, dash ! Brute ! pig ! how dare you ? "
was the burthen of his song. " Have I spared trouble
and expense to make you win, you dolt, you blockhead?
Haven't I made all sorts of promises dependent
on success; and what a fool you make me
look ! I lose four thousand pounds, and my judgment
will in the future be impugned. Of all the idiots,
knaves, beasts, you are the most foul. You've no
brains, of course ; but it's hard that your stupid arms
and fists should fail you." Up and down the tent he
raged like a wild animal, and Caleb, who had recovered
consciousness, lay on his back, listening sullenly.
To be beaten was bad enough, but to be insulted
afterwards ! Poor Caleb, softened by unexpected

humiliation, burst into tears as lie sprawled on the
ground with rags applied to his temples, and sobbed
like a woman.

'' Snivelling now?" sneered Vere. "It's yon who
are the cur ! Don't ever presume to show your ugly
mug to me again. Do you hear? Four thousand
pounds I've lost on you, you colossal booby, and
prestige to boot ! You grovelling, puling villain ! "

His lordship banged out of the tent and leapt into
his phaeton, and, devoting his grooms to the deuce,
endeavoured to escape from the throng. But an
immense concourse was surging about the victor's
tent, hallooing, howling, cat-calling, swearing they
would not depart till the idol showed himself. After a
pause, the Sprig of Myrtle emerged, pale but calm as
ever, having been brushed up by his delighted attendants
so as to show as little punishment as possible.

"Another match!" shouted Lord Sefton. "By
Jupiter, we'll pit him for the Championship. What
say you, Cribbb ? You'd laugh on the other side of
jour mouth if he wrested that belt from you."

Mr. Cribbb grinned, and took the hand of his boy.
"He's worthy to wear it. And, please Heaven, he
will some day. 'Tis for him, not me, to challenge.
What say you, Cy ?"

I will never do that," responded Cyrus, with
emotion. " Fight my best of friends, my father ?
Why, I should go down in the first round, and serve

me right. No, no ; let Thomas wear the belt, bless
him, for many and many a year. When he feels

inclined to retire, maybe But no, never again.' ^

The voice of the victor faltered, his lip trembled,
and he turned white.

** Give him air; he's queer," cried anxious Cribbb.

A speech, a speech ! " yelled the multitude, and
the cry was taken up till it rose to a deafening roar.

No, no ! " bawled Cribbb. " Why can't you let
him be, you gluttons ? Hasn't he done enough ? "

Yes ; a speech," Cyrus said sadly. " I ain't good
in that line, but I have a few words to say, if so be
as you'll hear me patiently."

The acclamations subsided, and the crowd was all
attention.

I only want you to know," said Cyrus, with dry
lips, " that I fight no more prize battles. My mind
is firmly set, and I only came out now because a
dastard tried to stick me in the back. I announced
before my lords and gentlemen that I'd retired from
within the ropes for good, and nothing could have
changed that resolution except calumnies aimed at
my honour. I've proved how groundless were the
charges ; so, come what may, the ring will know meno
more."

Lord Osmington lashed his horses furiously, and,
forcing a way through the crowd, departed like a
whirlwind, scattering right and left all who stood in

his path. The modest oration was approved by some
for its caithness of tone and quiet deep sincerity ;
but the prevailing feeling was one of profound disappointment.
That one who had proved himself so
worthy should, of his own free will, leave the laurels
unplucked which caressed his hand was depressing ;
and there was a mournfulness about his manner, as
of one who looks for the last time upon the fair earth,
that sat oddly on a man who had just achieved so
signal and well-won a triumph. Spring, in amazement,
stared at the noble patrons, then at Cribbb ; but
the latter lowered his eyes. Had the fellow a screw
loose ? demanded his Grace of Beaufort. A man with
such undoubted gifts, such rare powers, could have
no right to throw them away. It was nonsense ! He
was dizzy from the blows he had received. In a
few days he would be all right again, ready to come
forward. He, the Duke, would be his patron; was
prepared to do anything in the sway of encouragement.
Hanged if the fellow should not accompany
him to Badminton, and live on the fat of the land !
It was proper and noble of him to refuse to fight
his friend, but there were others who could show fine
sport. That young Jack Eandal, now ; just the same
age and size and weight. Hanged if he should not
meet Jack Eandal before the fall of the leaf ! Lord
Sefton shouted in chorus.

But Cyrus was calmly determined, though thankful

for the kindness of amateurs. He had a reason for
leaving the ring which his old friend Cribbb knew of,
from whom he had no secrets. He did feel faint and
queer, and would retire to rest for a little, if they'd be
so good as to hermit it. Thanking one and all, he
bade them a long farewell and health and happiness.
With a bow to the open-mouthed multitude, he
vanished within his tent, and, crouching on a stool,
buried his face in his hands. Poor fellow ! You are
aware that the Champion of England was the mildest
of men, that he would not smite a fly save as a
matter of business ; and yet, as he stood over the
victor of the fight and marked his mental suffering,
the violence of the inner conflict which he had hidden
from public gaze under an impassible exterior, he
breathed words that were uncomj)limentary to Abigel —
felt as if he'd like to do her a personal injury. *' Why
is it so ordained ? " he groaned, scratching his pate
in perplexity. "Why is it that we always fall in love
with the wrong people, and are so perversely blind,
while outsiders can see so clearly ? This dear, honest
boy is pining for what in all probability he'll never
have, and if he does get it, much will he be benefited
thereby ! He'll make himself wretched and her too.
If one is to suffer, I'd rather it was she. Oh, how I'd
like to strangle her, the interfering baggage ! "

The multitude dispersed, 'perplexed, displeased*
Eandal and Spring stared at Cribbb.

If this is the v>'Q,y lie takes victory, how would he
take defeat?" grumbled the latter. ''He looks as if
his heart were broke and life a vale of tears."

Are we to stay hero till tomorrow ? " grunted
Eandal, with impatience. " If I won a fight, blessed
if I wouldn't trundle back to town alongside a took
at least. The swells have bolted ; nothing left buta
hired trap. Bio wed if it ain't disgraceful ! "

"You go and get it ready, then," said Thomas,
seeing that remonstrances were torture to his favourite.
We'll trundle back quietly in the cool of the evening
together, and finish the night at the Lion."

Cyrus had delivered the oration which cost him such
an effort in crystal accents, which rose clear above
the stillness; and Caleb Ann, tying swathed with
bandages, heard and marvelled. " Not a bad sort,"
he mumbled aloud, while his seconds thought him
wandering. '' A good sort, but rummy — deuced
rummy. Not a cur. Beg pardon ; my lord a mean
blackguard, a beast ! Called me a cur ! As if I
hadn't done my best ! Cursed and reviled me ! The
sneak, to hit a fellow when he's down ! " Mr. Ann's
wits grew clouded again, and he seemed to sleep ;
but after a few seconds sprang up with fever in his
eye. 'leave me alone!" he snarled. "Know my
business ! Is Sprig of Myrtle gone ? Want to see
Sprig of Myrtle, quick ! "

No. The victor was not gone ; was just stepping

into the hired trap, whose seediness had evoked the
spleen of Eandal.

"Ask him to come to me. Cursed me; called mea
cm* ! Won't I be even with him ? Damn the
reward ! Tell the Sprig to come."

Caleb lay back panting and closed his eyes, but
opened them again to see Cyrus looking gravely down
on him.

"You want me?" he said. "Cheer up; you'll
soon be as right as ever."

'Tain't that," muttered the humbled Pink. " Can't
see. Blind — but wish you no ill-will, old pal. Let
me call you 'pal.' Really thought you were a
coward, and beg pardon. This ogle, wear it ; for it
belongs to you, the trophy of the vanquished."

With a sickly smile Caleb detached his pink handkerchief
and handed it to Cyrus.

"Cheer up," cried the latter, cheerily. "A few
nice washes of black briar-root will remove the
mourning from your face, and you'll be as right asa
trivet. I am glad you sent for me, and that's a
fact ; for I always thought you a sly, vindictive fellow,
who'd never forgive a beating. I ask your pardon for
reading you so ill. We'll part without rancour. Goodbye
; for I leave the ring for ever, and London, too."

"Both of us mistaken, then. Never bore malice to
one as was my master," murmured Caleb, speaking
with difficulty, "but can't bear a sneak. Why



leave the ring?" he asked suddenly, trying to peer
into the other's face from under a dripping bandage.
"Tain't idle curiosity, but don't answer unless you
like. I saw an advertisement in the Yorkshire news-sheet
with your name to it."

"You did?" cried Cyrus, on the qui valve at once.
'• ^yhat can you know about it '? ''

A grin passed over the battered visage of the Pink
as he responded with feeble waggery, " Not so indifferent
now — eh? I've been jack of many trades.
You know that well enough. Boatman, barges — was
once a vintner's man at York. That ain't so very far
from Stratton-on-the-Fosse."

I remember that you were. Well ? "

Mind you, I don't claim no reward, though I shall
be precious hard up after this failure. I tell you, to
show I bear no malice to the man who can be my
master. It's a stone that's wanted, isn't it, with a
cherub in marble atop ? "

'eyes, yes."

'swell, then, when I was at York I was sent, with
another chap, to the great house by my employer to
move a lot of port from one cellar to another. 'Twas
hot, they said — too near the kitchen wall. When we'd
changed the bins, I saw a cherub staring at me, which
was startling ; and clearing the cobwebs, saw that it
was an old memorial stone that had been used as a
partition, and mighty comic I thought it was to use

such a thing for such a purpose. The thing's there
still, I suppose," he added ; " for when the wine was
removed, they shot in a batch of firewood. Any way,
it's worth seeing to, if it does you any good, and I give
you the information gratis."

Cy Smalley's depression was transformed into joy.
What news for Abigel ! He had been looking forward
ruefully to a journey northward to try and make his
peace, feeling but too well that the damsel's brow
would be all frowns, her eyes flashing with indignation.
How could he possibly make his peace ? She
would rave, and he would be abject ; but she would
never, never trust him any more — could never grow
to like him. A vague notion had flitted through his
brain that perhaps she would be touched by the
heroism with which he could dash the cup of triumph
from his lips for love of her. But, then, she would
possibly say, "You're full of protestations and
promises and vows, but can break them easily enough
when it suits your purpose. You vowed before that
you had given up the ring, never to return to it.
How do I know but that some day, when I have
married you, a scribbler will assail your honour, as
you call it, and you'll be tearing off again to break his
head?" What could he reply to that? Henceforth
it did not signify what people whispered behind his
back. Nothing could have been more decisive than
the victory. Caleb — queer fellow — admitted as much

complacently ; he who had been so scornful and full
of spite. But Cy had broken his solemn promise ;
that was a hard fact — how could he deny it ? He was
far too straightforward to attempt any such thing.
He had broken his promise, and was not even sorry
to have done so. Unrepentant, how could he hope
for forgiveness '? Abigel would cast him forth into
outer darkness as a perjured, faithless rascal. This
unexpected turn of affairs, though, put a new complexion
on the matter. Now he could take the coach
and travel northward with gladness and a clear conscience.
She would upbraid, and he would laugh.
She would fly into tantrums, and he would take her
in his strong arms, press her to his manly breast, ashe
might some fluttering bird that must be taught to
nestle quietly. He could say, " I return to you crowned
with glory. I've saved my honour', and by doing right
have won an unexpected prize. If I hadn't beaten
Caleb, his lips would have been sealed ; for he disliked
me too much to do aught that might give me pleasure.
We never should have found the tablet, for it would
never have entered our minds to seek for a partition
in a cellar." In the joy of hearing his news she
would forget to frown, forget to twit him with his
broken word. For did he not hold the missing clue,
the shattered link ? What would they not read upon
the stone which Pentecost and the second lord had
hidden so whimsically away ?

Caleb lay still upon his back, subdued, softened
by the revulsion of feeling that was due to a good
drubbing ; roused now and again to sorrow for himself,
as he brooded over the iniquity of Lord Islington.
" To hit a fellow when he's down, when
he's done his best ! " he muttered again and again.
He who spits against the wind wets his own face.
Who but a foolish man would pour water on a
drowned mouse ? My lord would repent his behaviour
that was a consolation. '' Something more, old
pal," he whispered. 'rit was Lord Osmington as
wrote that spiteful article in the Morning Herald.
I know it, though he did not tell me ! "

His face beaming with gratitude, Cy shook his
quondam rival by the hand, and went his way ; and
Spring and Eandal made up their minds that he
was mad, for sure never was so paradoxical a person.
As for Caleb Ann, he was carried to the Stag, shorn
now of its highbred company, and remained there
until fit to be removed to town. His patron never
sent a messenger to inquire how he was, or thought
to despatch a few pounds for present emergencies.
No ! Though all the knowing ones agreed that Ann
had fought as well as Smalley, and had shown such a
display of indomitable courage as made him worthy
of the name of Englishman, the vindictive lord took
no more heed of him than if he had been a log. Caleb
sent to town to draw money from the consolation-stakes

: and as the sum dwindled, lie dotted up a score
of hate against his unkind patron, satisfied in some
sort with a conviction that the discovery of the tablet,
which was so much wanted, would cause him to regret
his cruelty.

Chapter III.

THE VICTOR RETURNS IN TRIUMPH.

As he sped northward, Mr. Cyrus Smalley had ample
time to reflect upon what had happened. How guileless
he had been to fall straight into my lord's trap ;
and how my lord must have laughed in his sleeve to
see how he gobbled the bait and splashed away down
stream, unconscious of the hook in his gills ! And
yet, who but those who were base themselves could
have suspected such turpitude ? But through being
i]oo cunning, he had overreached himself. Of course,
Cy ruminated, the proposal of the tenants to pay
double rent had been reported, and my lord, having
inquired into what was passing in the north, had
perceived the desirability of separating the chief
conspirators. He had calculated, no doubt, that the
Sprig would be beaten ; that he would then, to clear
fi tarnished reputation, humbly return to a status
jmpillari, and would thus be too much occupied to
make mischief in Yorkshire. Lured into the vortex
of encouragement and flattery, he would be unable and

unwilling to renounce prospective honours. My lord
trusted to the Corinthians to keep his fish in play.
It vas deftly imagined, and the result might have
been as the schemer hoped — if Cy had not proved
victor. There was where my lord made his mistake.
He made a grievous blunder, too, in openly siding
with Caleb; for if the Sprig had been under the
patronage of the President of the Pugilistic Club,
Beaufort, Worcester, and Sefton would not have taken
him under their immediate protection. With such
powerful protectors he was secure from foul play.
My lord's undisguised fury had a bad effect with the
elite.

"Vere's certainly going to the dogs," his Grace of
Beaufort observed musingly to my lord Worcester,
as they rolled back to town. " Noblesse oblige. If we
lose our money, we should keep our temper. Hanged if
I ever saw anything so spiteful and so foul-mouthed !
Four thousand pounds he said he lost. A fleabite. To
listen to his outcry, one would imagine that his rent-roll
had been staked on the hazard of the fists. Ina
President of the Pugilistic Club a most unseemly
exhibition ! " A verdict that was fully endorsed by the
refined occupants of White's window.

On reflection, Cy was ashamed of himself for having
been so easily caught in the snare ; and yet it settled
one vexed point in his mind. Vere was desperately
afraid of something resulting from the search — of

some glittering nugget being turned up by the patient
delving of Miss Rowe and her auxiliary. He was
afraid of Madam Pentecost, or would long since have
sent the inquisitive damsel into space. From which
it was fair to conclude that he knew himself to be a
usurper, and that Pentecost knew it also. But all's
well that ends well. Many a criminal is undone hj
over-caution, brought to justice by the over-elaboration
of his arrangements. If the toils had not been spread,
chuckle-headed Cy would not have floundered into
them; he would probably never have met Caleb
Ann any more on earth. What a fatality that my
lord's tactics should have brought the two men in
contact again whom it ought to have been his utmost
endeavour to keep apart ; that emulation in reaching
a goal should have given rise to a whimsical friendship
between those persons, who ought to have
remained enemies !

When Cyrus arrived at Ripon, he received an
ovation. The tidings of victory had been transmitted
by the Flying Coach, and all the tagrag and bobtail
of the town came forth to greet the conqueror. The
landlady of the Unicorn stood under her archway
wreathed in smiles, with the ostler by her side, bearing
a bowl of spiced stingo ; and the knowing ones of the
West Hiding (all the knowing ones are not in the
metropolis) stood forward as a deputation, and thanked
the noble youth in a set speech for upholding the

repute of their county. And if Ripon was delighted,
what of retired Stratton ? All the village turned out
in full fig, men, women and children — even pet dogs —
with Kimpton the blacksmith at their head ; and the
bell ringers indulged in their merriest peal, to the
scandal of the vicar, who didn't approve of such doings.
Never was such a hero as this hero. My lord Wellington
might beat Bony, and all the country far and
wide Avould rise to give him thanks. But here was the
child of Stratton-on-the-Fosse — flesh of its flesh and
bone of its bone — who had come home like a triumphant
David. Stratton would be but a stepmother if she
showed no maternal pride. So the apothecary stood
out, cleared his throat, as spokesman, with his bald
crown glistening in the sun, and spake ore rotunda, to
the terrified admiration of all listeners ; and the proprietor
of the general shop, where pelops and sweet-stuff
and hobnailed boots vied for public favour,
determined not to be behind, made a complimentary
oration of a flamboyant character, in words of at least
five syllables.

It was a great day for Stratton, for the apothecary,
and the proprietor of boots and brandy-balls, and the
grocer, and other magnates decided that nothing but a
British blow-out could do justice to so splendid an
occasion. A subscription was hurriedly raised ; tables
were laid out under the big trees opposite the inn,

and the health of the Sprig of Myrtle was drunk with
VOL. n\. 46

uproarious applause. Tom Kimpton, in a waistcoat
like a leopard-skin, that had never seen the day
since his wedding, rubbed his old face with horny
fingers, and explained how he had known it would be
so. He had always been sure that there was summit
in the lad, who'd make 'em all proud of him some
day, and sure enough he was right; and simple,
blushing Cyrus was astonished, as he listened, to
think that from infancy he had been a marvel, whom
all the world, except himself, knew to be predestined
to glory. All this was vastly gratifying to the young
man's vanity, but at the bottom of the cup were bitter
lees. The tenor of his own discourse in front of the
tent at Kingston had not been transmitted to Yorkshire.


These kind friends were not aware that the book
of ambition was closed for him, that he was nevermore
to do his county credit. The local doctor, who
was nettled by the success of the apothecary and
rendered foolhardy by beer, launched into poetic
flights, and depicted rosy visions, wherein the Sprig
of Myrtle, stripped to the waist, stood awaiting
victims. As the daughters of the Greeks were eaten
by the Minotaur, so would the Sprig snap up and
crunch all candidates for fistic fame. The plain in
front of his dwelling would be covered with the corses
of the slain. Corses did he say ? Bones — humeri
tibiae J fibula, scapula — picked clean and white by the

till-powerful and omnivorous maw. This was so
grand an excision up Parnassus, that the apothecary
Lung his diminished head and the company were
moved to tears. But, indeed, they were by this time
very drunk, and wore their feelings upon their sleeves.
Cyrus was overwhelmed with embraces; his smart
new coat was pawed by many a dusky hand, dabbed
with beery finger-marks; and damp whispers were
hiccupped in his ear to the effect that every one had
known it all along, and had always prophesied as
much. Amidst the volubility that grew out of home-brewed
ale, Cyrus found it impossible to explain his
views. They would keep. What was the use of
dashing the pleasure of to-day with prognostications
of a gloomy morrow ? It was highly satisfactory to
be appreciated by his own village folk. As he looked
-at the bunches of myrtle that freely decked the board
in honour of his cognomen, he wondered what she
would think, whose favorite plant it was. Would
she be glad he had won a victory, or would she turn up
that blessed little nose ? It would not do to be any
longer in suspense ; so bidding farewell to his generous
entertainers, with hand-shakes and mutual good
wishes, he turned into the park with jocund mind to
seek his pretty cousin.

Abigel did not fume, or dart sweet lightnings, or
stamp her bewitching little foot. She looked up at
Cyrus as he appeared on the ruined terrace, and

contemplated him with a far-off gaze, as we survey
our minds attuned to a minor key, a portrait of one
who is gone. She was very quiet, thin and pale and
somewhat listless, she who could be so extravagantly
active ; and the yearning heart of Cy kindled and
flamed. To think that she was like an Indian widow
on her husband's pyre, sacrificing herself on the altar
of an idea — offering up her youth before a deity who
could look stolidly on the while ! The yearning
heart endured another pang. Why was it that the
loved face had lost its look of brightness ? Was it
that she was disappointed in her quest ? Or was
it that she had regretted the absence of her cousin ?
Alas ! how could he bring himself to think so ? Wait
that she pined for the visible presence of the
fascinating jackanapes ? With what exultation did
Cyrus thank Heaven for that disclosure of Caleb's
a piece of information which would go towards
separating those two for ever.

Like most jealous men, our pugilist was wrong in
his reckoning. Abigel was pale and listless because
everything that she could possibly bring herself to
desire had been sliding away, leaving her to sink into
quicksands. The chubby-checked phenomenon was
alive still. The quest did not progress. The one
picture of the future which seemed possible, as a means
some day of filling an empty life, eluded her grasp.

She forced herself to rise, however, from her seaton

the terrace-steps as Cyrus approached, with a
pretty look of sympathy; for Kimpton the blacksmith
had rushed to the manor-house with news of
the fight, and so, knowing all about it, she craved
particulars with the courteous politeness of one who
takes pains to show civility.

The letter she had written, bidding Leoline not to
despair, had been answered, and had provoked her
much. Was she not a miserable girl to be uncertain
as to what she wanted, to be so dissatisfied with the
unrolling of events, the development of the characters
and fortunes of those for whom she professed to care ?
What is the use of sacrificing your best years for the
behoof of one who afflicts you with metrical praise ?
Leo was guilty of this misdemeanour ; for when she
scribbled in hot earnest that she had come upon yet
another priceless document, he replied with a sonnet on
spurs and steel leg-pieces, regretting that so doughty a
warrior should combat in so weak a cause. Three days
after, he despatched a really beautiful poem about a
sea-nymph, who gave up immortality to impart a
moment of joy to a poor fisher-lad — a poem which she
read with ardent glow, then quickly put away. There
was something distasteful about the end of it; for
'twas unpleasant to hearken to soft nothings from
his lips. Of course they were soft nothings. Poets
are privileged to go into rhapsody about Chloe and
Glycerin and their* countless charms; and while we

read, we know all the time that the poet cares nothing
about one or t'other — that he is winking his eye, with
his tongue in his cheek. Stella is but a peg to hang
flowing couplets on. Well, but why, you will say, be
annoyed by that which is the acknowledged practice of
poets ? We are not annoyed by the doggerel nonsense
on a bonbon. We laugh and cry, " What tomfoolery ! '^
Perhaps the soft nothings coming from the poet
Briggs would not have displeased Abigel. Perhaps,
she was inwardly racked by the tender platitudes,
because she would so like to have heard them in real
earnest from his lips ! Be that as it may, she locked
the verses in a drawer, sighing over the weariness of
her existence, wondering why her particular dark cloud
had never been provided with a lining — hugging her
lonely heart, cynically brooding over its emptiness.
Was it through fault of hers that her heart was
condemned to be empty? Can it be a beneficent
spirit that rules so rugged a world ?

There was no vestige of anger in the demeanour of
Miss Eowe when she advanced to receive her cousin.
During the months which passed after his abrupt
departure for town, she had had leisure for self-examination
of the most stringent kind ; and reflection
showed how much to blame she had been in accepting
at his hands that which he had not to give. How could
she excuse herself for offering up Cy for the good of
Leoline ? She had been selfish and naughty ; he had

overrated his strength. How many of us in moments
of exaltation and hysteric fervour vow to do things of
which we are incapable when we have wakened from
a condition of ecstasy ? How many of the Crusaders
wished their tongues had been bitten out before they
had registered stupid promises to go to Palestine ?
What was to be gained by the futile journey?
Nothing, except wounds, and hardships, and expense,
and a prospect of burial like a pauper's — a prospect,
for such warriors as succeeded in escaping death, of
finding madam married to her page, or misbehaving
with a troubadour. What silly promises we make,
and how speedily we regret our folly ! Jephthah was
not the only precipitate person, I dare say. Human
nature being unstable, vows should be accepted in
the light of flowery compliments ; but as for expecting
them to be carried out — no ! We wiseacres should
know better. Left to herself, Abigel perceived that
she had been downright wicked. No woman whatsoever
has a right to call upon a man to abandon the set
direction of his life, his cherished aspirations, to
satisfy a caprice of hers. If Cy was to give up all,
what was he to receive in return ? There was so little
that she had to give. He was an excellent, staunch
fellow, who, having promised more than he could perform,
had fallen away. Was he to be blamed for it ?
No. The deplorable mania for fisticuffs was apparently
not to be eradicated. He must be considered with

his drawbacks, and appreciated accordingly. Was it
not whimsical that, despite the drawbacks, he should
persist in panting after his cousin ? But for them
that shadowy idol might have been realized, in which
a cot and a dairy and buttercups and cowslips bore
their part — not such a contemptible consummation,
after all! Alack! That had gone the way of all
the other fairy visions ; and Abigel, seeing it fade, and
being a woman, began to regret it as something quite
to be desired. Why should a maid, who had deliberately
chosen the lowly life, turn up her nose at such
a spouse as Cy — tall, with a splendid figure and
an honourable nature ? Ah, but those butcher-like
proclivities ! Though he might swear they were
smothered, they were sure to sprout some time.
What a prospect — to abide with a husband who was
always casting regretful glances at his biceps ; whose
manner was always whispering, " Cowslip wine, my
love, and newlaid eggs are very nice, but the sward
and the ropes are nicer " ! Cy had been good and
loyal, and was a dear, kind boy; but he could not
help his proclivities. If it was necessary to his
earthly well-being that he should batter noses, he
must e'en have his eccentric way ; but really — really
it was too much to expect a cousin, who was an adept
in the cymbal and shawl-dance, to stand by with the
sponge ! An unconquerable desire to batter the nose
of Ann had forced Cyrus to town. Well, the nose of

Hand had been battered ; Cy was satisfied ; and since
be bad paid her the compliment of sporting ber
favourite blossom, it was only fair that she should
inquire how he enjoyed his victory.

But this indifferent politeness was exquisitely
harrowing to the Sprig of Myrtle. Tears, upbraiding,
face-scratching, would have been infinitely preferable
; for indifference is a deft mason in the
matter of wall building. Those communing in the
woods over the intricate affair of the peerage had
been delicious, though the subject was not specially
interesting to him ; for she had followed his views
with breathless interest, and had shown the most
ravishing of lip-twisting when he made a shrewd
suggestion, had even squeezed his big fingers and
sent a thrill into his marrow. But now ! 'Twas like
a lady taking up a servant's character — so frigid and
ceremonious. Why did she not blurt out her blunt
disHke of Ann and Eandal and the Champion, and
all the Pugilistic Club, and their sanguinary performances,
instead of talking prunes and prism, and
inquiring, with affected civility, if Mr. Cribbb was
well ?

Cy was not prepared for this, and could not bear it.
Don't go on so, Abby," he pleaded; " it makes me
mad. It's nought to you who won, or how many
rounds there were. Let's talk of something else."

Fie, my dear ! " the dutiful maid responded. '* I

am keenly alive to my cousin's success, a cousin whom
I really and truly like very much indeed. The
villagers behaved most properly, and I'm charmed
with that grumpy, delightful old Kimpton. If they'd
asked me to the feast, I'd have been there to drink
your worship's health."

"Was the naughty jade joking, or in earnest ? Did
she speak thus, knowing that her words were sharpened
rowels in the flanks of her plunging victim?
She seemed quite in earnest ; was apparently really
glad that her cousin should be pleased. Oh, what a
wall of Cyclopean masonry ! He had worked hard to
separate his sweetheart from the poet Leo. The
breach was wider still 'twixt her and himself. That
cunning, diabolical lord had succeeded in dividing
the cousins ; but he should be baffled all the same.
As he ground his teeth, Cyrus Smalley swore it, and
again thanked Caleb in spirit for his invaluable gift.

What have you been doing since I left ? " he
inquired, to change the subject. "Gossiping with
Betty Higgs and Sally Scraggs? My bird, how
bored you must have been ! "

I am not bored," replied the listless girl. " I am
resigned." ^

*' Then you have found out nothing new ? "

Abigel pondered. Why should she tell him ? The
compact was broken by him, and it was better so.
What had he to do with the quest ?

What would you have me find ? " she asked, with
assumed carelessness.

The stone — the monumental tablet."

** I don't want the stone."

Why, have you tied of your hobby ? " exclaimed
Cy, half pleased, half disappointed.

'' No ; but I've resolved to trouble you no more
with it."

That was a slap in the face.

But if I choose to be troubled — for your sake ?
Why don't you want the stone ? "

Because I have got the name without it. The
man with white hair was called Miles Jarvis."

Abby expected to see the face of Mr. Smalley beam
with respectful admiration, and was no little disconcerted
when he calmly shook his head.

No, it wasn't," he asserted with dogged conviction.
I'd remember if I saw or heard the name. I know it
wasn't Miles."

But, you pigheaded athlete, I have it in his own
handwriting — in the writing, that is, of James, the
father. He talks of his two children, Miles and
Dorcas."

"Can't help that. The eldest wasn't Miles, I'll
swear."

What was the girl to think ? Could he be right ;
and was Miles a second son or a third ? The brow of
Miss Piowe became corrugated with perplexity; and

Cyrus, radiant, proceeded without more ado to communicate
his news.

Her chin resting on both palms, Abigel listened
with round eyes, and long after the pugilist had
ceased to speak she continued to sit crouching motionless.
How vain is human planning, scheming, foresight!
Had this blundering fellow done as he was
bid, they might have groped on for ever without result.
By an act of mutiny, which she had schooled herself
to treat with forbearance, the clue had come into her
hand. In the midst of her joy she felt humbled, for
'twas by a happy accident, not through deft generalship
on her part.

Can you pardon my going away ? " pleaded Cyrus,
timidly. " I could not help it, you know — indeed, I
could not ; and, as you perceive, it has turned out for
the best. Do, please, be a little angry — just a little, to
show that you are yourself."

'' Thank you, sir, for the compliment," Abigel
replied, with the still air of endurance that sat so
oddly on her. " How can I be angry, when the finger
of Heaven seems to direct our way ? I was lonely,
my dear, and sorrowful ; but that's past. Angry ! I'm
very, very glad, but too surprised to think coherently."

Darkness was encompassing Miss Eowe. Things
shaped themselves so differently from the way in which
she planned them, that, distrustful of her own capacity
for judgment, she felt tempted to give up attempting

to direct the course of events. Here had she been
moping and deploring the lukewarmness and possible
treachery of an unstable conspirator, vowing that a
veneer of politeness was all that was possible henceforth
between herself and him. Then, presto ! back
comes the delinquent, quite cockatoo and confident,
bearer of information about a stone which she had
abandoned hopes of finding, to claim in exchange the
renewal of a tacit promise which she knew now ought
never to have been given. Her impulse was peremptorily
to refuse. But his pleading was so earnest !
Had she a right to refuse ? What ought she to do ?
His will was stronger than hers, and she felt sliding
hopelessly into submission. Was it decreed that he was
to have his way, and were the angels laughing at her
poor attempt to combat the inevitable? The dairy
and buttercup idol was, perhaps, to be realized after
all, and a feeling of restfulness crept over her at the
thought. Was it possible that he would grow content
to plough his fields, without thinking of his biceps or
his males ? No, no ! She had learned in solitude
that such a sacrifice must never be accepted. Why
grope in the dark ? Better far to fold the hands and
be drawn along without buffeting by unseen agency.
Even if allowed to arrange her life according to fancy,
did she know how she would arrange it ? Certainly
not. Then, since so one-sided a contest was contrary to
nature's law, a struggle against Fate was midsummer

madness. It seemed tolerably certain that active
happiness was never to be hers. She was a solitary
little being on a great seething earth, to whom, individually,
nothing mattered. If one speck in the vast
crowd chose to declare that his happiness depended
upon her, surely 'twould be best to win a small amount
of satisfaction by giving way to the desires of that
speck. Her education rose in protest. And yet — what
had her education been to Abigel, but a curse ? Why
not forget it, stifle it, erase from the tablets of memory
the brief glimpse of better things ? How far away
was Almack's now — the condescension of the great
London ladies ! Sure 'twas a dream coined in a distempered
brain. Why not, abjuring prejudices that
befitted not one so lonely and so friendless, try to
make this obstinately faithful fellow happy, since he
would have it so ? Why pretend to be better than
he? Why not, without ridiculous ribbing, consent
at once to be the bruiser's bride, and conscientiously
strain every nerve to get used to the battering of
noses ?

Thus did Abigel cynically reason ; and Mr. Smalley,
taking silence for consent, pressed her close to his
breast and kissed her delicious little ear. She submitted
to his will without a word, for it evidently
was to be as he desired. She was to be Mrs. Sprig
of Myrtle, and prepare hot porter and raw steaks all
through her life, as she had chosen once to do in a

moment of coquettish caprice ; and when her lord and
master grew too old for victory, she was to tuck him
up in bed and apply plasters to his bruises. That was
to be her future. Not a sunny one ; but if it must be,
'twas well to look it boldly in the face.

Cy, my dear," she murmured. " Don't, sir ! But
listen to what I have to say. I'm a useless, wayward
gii'l, and it would have been better, perhaps, for
myself and you too, apparently, if I had never been
born. But I could not help that, you know ; so I must
make the best of it. What you can see in a poor
creature like your cousin I can't think, but if you
must have me, yom worship's will shall be my law,
and I'll be a true and faithful wife to you. We will
go through with this search, for there's no sort of
doubt any longer but what Leoline is deprived of his
rights. The day he enters here as master, I surrender
at discretion, and will go back with you to London.
Am I not an improved Abigel ? "

She looked up with a sad smile, which smote her
lover to the heart.

*' To London ? " he stammered.

'' Yes," she replied calmly. " They say you've a
great career. You've said so yourself often ; and
Kimpton told me so. Who am I that I should spoil
it ? Don't you remember asking me once in London,
with reproach, if I would stand between you and
fortune ? I was conceited and silly then — puffed up

with pride. You may write and tell your Mr. Cribbb
that he need not detest poor me, for you shall never
leave the ring for my sake."

Could he believe his ears ? Was this the haughty
maid who had been so scornful with regard to the
Champion, so distractingly domineering? Was she,
not he, to make the sacrifice, since sacrifice there
needs must be ? Never !

*you are a darling," whispered her lover, with
more caresses ; " but all that is over. Please don't
look so humble. Humility sits on you like an ill-fitting
garment. I've bidden a formal farewell to the past.
Let's say no more about it, and make the best of this
precious discovery."

I protest that it is vastly affecting to see two
estimable young persons vying one with t'other in
nobility of soul ; and the process was exceedingly
comforting to themselves, as well as to you and me,
for the pair looked calmly content, as, hand in hand,
they penetrated into the den of grandam Pentecost, to
investigate the condition of that lady. She took no
heed of either of them as they entered, but squatted
in her old position with skinny fingers spread over the
flames, rocking to and fro with lips close set. Her
grandson dutifully wished her a good day, and she
slowly turned dim eyes towards him, and then back to
the fire. Her wizened aspect caused grave concern
to Cyrus, who saw changes in her which Abigel, who

gazed constantly on the unlovely spectacle, was unable
to perceive. Hand in hand they stole out on tiptoe,
and Mr. Smalley said, " She's breaking fast. That's
terrible ! "

Since the old woman was dumb, and it was impossible
to get anything out of her, Abigel was fain to
confess that she did not see that the demise of the
decrepit housekeeper signified very much. " I
shouldn't like to grow so old and imbecile," she
remarked, shuddering. 'how would you enjoy the
sight of your old wife mumbling all day over the
brandy bottle?" But she also looked grave when
Cy explained his ideas, and marvelled at his
perspicacity.

If the old woman dies," he said, " the place will
be closed to you and me. If there is any more to be
discovered here, it must be seen to at once."

He was right. It behoved them, therefore, to make
the most of their time ; so, lighting a taper, they
descended, without delay, to explore the mysteries of
the cellar.

As to the required name not being Miles, the

deliberate certainty of Cy carried conviction with it.

At any rate, it was most necessary to find and examine

the stone, to see if the names tallied; for 'twould

never do, after all the trouble, to go off at a tangent

on a wild goose chase after Miles, if he was only a

second son. Out on second sons — useless cattle !
VOL. III. 47

Unsatisfactory and troublesome enough in life, they
surely are, without giving extra trouble after death !

A hazardous job, like searching in the Catacombs.
Eats, undisturbed for ever so long, sat up on hind-legs,
then scuttled off to tell their friends of the intrusion.
Bats squeaked in protest, as, hanging aside
down by their feet, they blinked at the explorers. One
step had fallen out of its place, leaving a gap. The
door at the bottom required a sturdy push from Mr.
Smalley's shoulder, and creaked and wheezed ere it
fell back with a bang that echoed through the mansion.
Half suffocated with dust, the cousins glanced guiltily
at each other. A noise like a clap of thunder — would
it wake grandam from her musings and bring her
creeping after them ? Quick, then, to find what was
required, before she came howling in their rear. They
paused to listen. No ; all was right. Her dim hearing
had not caught the sound. As they advanced
with difficulty, Cy began to have misgivings, and
upbraided himself in that he had not explored alone
before divulging his news to Abigel. What a disappointment
if the stone were gone ! My lord might
have had it removed, since the far-off days — ten years
ago it must have been, at least — when Caleb was a
vintner's assistant. And yet not so. He could never
have known what became of it ; his father could never
have known what was done with it. Through the
carelessness of domestics only could it have been

allowed still to exist. The order must have been a
careless one — to some understrappers during the
alterations in the church — to take the slab out of the
vestry where it lay, and put it away in the manor-house
for safety. That was probably the order
issued. To bid his men deliberately to destroy it would
have given rise to tittle-tattle in the servant's hall and
after-gossip in the alehouse. Certainly Vere could
not be aware that it was in existence, or he would not
have pounced like a vulture on the papers as the last
remaining proofs. Therefore, Cy cast aside misgivings,
and led the way along the passage, holding
the tajDer aloft. What a rambling basement — a
honeycomb of cellars, some fast locked, through the
iron gratings in whose doors the cobwebbed shapes of
bottles were indistinctly visible, like caddis-worms
entombed in rows ! That one to the right was cleaner
than the rest — 'twas evidently from thence that the
liquor was taken for the use of maj lord on his rare
visits to the north. To the left a winding way, with
an arch at the end, from which the door had dropped.

'come, Abby, to the left, and let us see what we
shall see. Forward ! This must be the place."

A grating larger than the others admitted a glint
of day. It yielded to the touch. Through this
aperture, no doubt, the wood had been shot in, and
through it had also come — might they hope so? —
the monumental slab on which they based so much.

The old bins, there they were, roughly partitioned
with anything that had come handy. A flat surface
veiled with many webs — could that be it ? Abigel clung
wildly to Cy*s coat, and her knees knocked together
as he gathered some wisps of straw and commenced
dusting. Freestone — freestone it was ! At the far
end near the outer wall something bulged, black and
round, like a huge spider that might have spun all
these elfin curtains. " Oh, Cy, dear, rub it quick !

What is it ? Can it be " The skin of the mimic

spider shrivelled off. Beneath was something white.
Presently it stood revealed — a cherub's head smirking
with bliss eterne. Oh, thrice blessed cherubic countenance
! Oh, blessed Betty Higgs to have remembered
the cherub's head ! There it was, true enough. The
simpering grin was a beatific smile, omen of success.
Quick, dearest, dearest Cy ! Eub the precious slab,
that we may read its invaluable legend." Cy rubbed
with a will. He was overjoyed. Everything was
going well with him. Fais ce que dois advienne que
pourra ! He had done right according to his light,
and was reaping his reward, in that the winsome
nut-brown arms were twined about him in the dimness,
and that he could feel the hurried throbbing of
the tender little breast.

The slab was loose, and yielded to the strong
muscles of Mr. Smalley. He succeeded in turning
it round and leaning it against the wall, smirking

cherub upmost ; and then the words writ the last Lord
Northallerton were legible. The voice from the grave
spoke.

*' Sacred to the Memory of James Christopher
Jervois, of Broagh in Ireland (second son of Leoline,
Earl of Northallei-ton), and of Sarah Kafferty his wife.
He departed this life an exile fi'om his native land
Anno Domini 1752, leaving one son Eoger Jarvis or
Jervois to regret his loss — but not for long. An
infant he was called away, down into the garden to
gather lilies. In life they might not be with us. In
memory they may. Such is the will and desire of
Ai-child, Earl of Northallerton, by whom this tablet
is erected in the parish chi-ch of .
April 20, 1755."

Leaning on Cy's arm, Abigel resigned herself to
thought. This was very strange. James Christopher
Jervois, of Broagh in Ireland. What about his proposed
migration to England, then? Did it never
take place ? Perhaps Ai-child answered that last
letter, begging him to stay where he was, lest in
England he should be pursued and tried. Pioger,
then, was the name of the son — the only son. Who
was Miles, then ? The last piece of evidence, discovered
in the lapis-lazuli receptacle, did not tally with
the record on the tablet. Was the earl mistaken, or
did he wilfully put up a lie ? He might take it for
granted on insufficient proof that the son had 'gone

down into the garden to gather Hies ; " but it was
curious he should have been ignorant of the existences
other children. Even supposing that he could
consider an elder to be an only son, could he be mistaken
in a name ? What a labyrinth it was ! The
last document distinctly spoke of two children, Miles
and Dorcas. Well, the last lord was too magnificent
to remember all the children of a Sarah Eafferty;
was inclined, perchance, to help sister Selina to inherit
rather than lowborn brats. Fancy the blood of a
Eafferty being mingled with that of the Plantagenetss !:
Perhaps Eoger really died of small-pox, and Archibald
purposely ignored Miles for the sake of Selina?
Was ever anything more intricate ? If Abigel had
never penetrated within the receptacle of lapis lazuli,
she would not have been puzzled. That Eoger was
the name of the son she sought there could be na
doubt, for Cyrus gave a cry when he beheld it.
He recognized it as the name on the burnt letter,,
that had so long escaped his recollection. Eoger
being the elder son, then, 'twas on his trail that
the bloodhounds must be set. That Eoger had
not died, as Archibald might have been mistaken in
supposing, was proved by the eagerness of Vere in
destroying that letter. If Eoger had indeed gone
down into the divine garden, while a possibly existent
Miles survived, it would have been his interest to save
the letter from destruction, that searchers might he.

set on a Wrong track. Eoger, then, it was clear,
had remained on earth to gather a Hon's share of
brambles instead of lilies ; so for the present, at least,
the other children, if any, were of no consequence.
It was very likely that Archibald, for sister Selina's
sake, had managed to ignore Miles and Dorcas. To
that end, no doubt, to baulk further inquiry, he had
declared that James Christopher died an exile. The
lapis-lazuli letter, as we may call it for distinction,
was precise as to a migration into England. Eoger,
at least, must have made the journey; for he had
appeared to Pentecost, and on being repulsed, had
threatened soon to return again. Hence his dwelling-place
could not have been very far remote from Battle
Magna. If that abode could be discovered, what a
step in advance might be gained !

'' Poor Eoger ! Mysterious wanderer ! " sighed
Abigel. " Tell us where you lived, that we may search
your dwelling for papers ! "

Though the conspirators were sure now as to Eoger,
they were no nearer to a certainty that Hans, soldier,
was his son. Miss Eowe being meek, and inclined to
be dutiful to him who, whether she liked it or not,
was to be her lord, looked up at that gentleman and
said, *' What shall we do now ? " Cy, however, was
absorbed by a contemplation of his own stupidity in
not having been able to recollect the name. He
looked BO foolish, and his face was so liberally besmeared

with grime when they emerged into the
upper air, that his betrothed tapped him on the arm
with a tinge of her old asperity.

Don't be so stupid ! " she cried. '' Think ! "
After ruminating with painful deliberation, and
rubbing the cellar-grime well into the pores of his
skin, Cy was delivered of another idea. In sooth he
was a miracle of brightness. " Let us call on Tom
Kimpton tomorrow," he suggested, *' and tell him
that the monument is found."

The advice was sage. The blacksmith was anxious
for Leoline's success. Much had been akeady learnt
from him, and he or his gossips might suggest a
means of advancing a step farther. It was hard to
wait till tomorrow; but Abigel had much to think
over, and tossed about all night, groping in a maze
of perplexity, wondering if they would ever get to the
bottom of the mystery, and if in sober truth she was
to be a bruiser's bride, and gird him with the belt
some day.

Chapter IV.

THE CONSPIRATORS TRY ARTIFICE.

Mr. Kimpton gladly threw clown his hammer when
he beheld the cousins, and tucked up his leather
a23ron in token that on occasion he could be open
to a chat even in business hours. His rugged face
was puckered into jovial wrinkles, for, as he sapiently
observed, he could see into a brick wall as far as most
people, and thought it a fitting climax that the victor
should be crowned with bays by the hands of the fair.
Those two '11 make a match of it before winter, and
I'll give away the bride," he declared oracularly to
the apothecary's assistant, when Cy escaped from his
entertainers under the trees and went off in search
of Abigel. "We've done him honour, and he's grateful
for the compliment, as a good and deserving young
man should, for sure Stratton never jumped so at
a citizen; but he'd rather have one word of praise
from her cherry lips than all the beautiful speeches
spoke to-day, including that topper of the doctor's,
which was a one-er, and no mistake." And the

gossips wagged their heads over their pipes in mute
agreement as to the singular fact that young folks will
be young folks and go a-courting instead of sitting
at the feet of sages. Birds and beasts will pair in
springtime, taking no warning from the domestic lives
of their elders, who bill and coo no more, but snarl
and snap instead.

A gentleman who could see so far through a brick
wall was the very person to advise a couple of
schemers in a quandary. Neither Cy nor Abigel
were a bit further advanced in the morning as to
that knotty point of what was to be done next. It
was necessary that Hans the soldier and Koger the
outcast should be linked together as father and son.
Could Mr. Kimpton make any suggestion as to how
that might be managed ? Mr. Kimpton put on
his considering cap, and walked up and down the
front of the forge whistling. *^ That Koger .must
have been a queer weak fellow," he mused, " to give
up his game and tuck his tail between his legs
because a virago stormed." He certainly never returned.
The seal that Leoline wore must have been
given or bequeathed by him — always supposing that
he was the father of Hans the soldier — and it was
highly probable that he had possessed other trinkets,
documents, what not — strands from the wreck of
the fugitive, which would have helped to prove his
birth. But then it was quite plain that neither

energy nor money had been his, without which sinews
no war may be carried on. He must have been in
dire distress indeed to have so far got the better of
his weakness as to pay that visit to Battle Magna,
If he and the conscience-stricken Lady Ohvia could
have met, how different it would have been ! But,
then, if things were ordained otherwise, how different
everything would be, and if different, how much better !
If our old uncle had walked down such a street on
such a day, at such a moment, the chimney-pot which
fell harmless in the gutter would have knocked him
on the head, and we should have inherited all his
property ; instead of which delightful consummation,
he sat at home and nosed his gout, and, taking a
fancy to his housekeeper, left his wealth to her.

Mr. Kimpton was as perplexed as Miss Eowe with
regard to the discrepancies between the tablet and
the lapis-lazuli letter. If the latter was writ by the
fugitive (as no doubt it was, since it had been so
carefully put away), the facts it stated must be true,
and she had better keep it as carefully as the other
papers, lest it should be wanted. But he begged leave
to point out that it did not deny the survival of
Eoger ; it merely talked of some second son, who
might have led Miss Eowe into useless labyrinths
but for the finding of the tablet. They need trouble
themselves, then, no more for the present with regard
to the lapis-lazuli letter. How to find out Eoger's

retreat ? That was the point, wasn't it ? One advertisement
had done wonders ; why not try another ?
Why not crave information as to the whereabouts
when living of one Eoger Jarvis, a person of abnormal
bulk and low estate ? The same difficulties
would probably arise which had proved insuperable
in the Irish researches. Such mean worms as he
and his are not remembered. They do their humble
service unnoticed, and frequently unthanked, and, when
they can work no more, drift into the omnivorous
workhouse. Suppose it had been necessary to advertise
for information about Naomi, Leoline's
luckless mamma ? Much chance there would ever
have been of hearing of her death in the barn.
After considering the matter from all its points of
view, Kimpton declared himself in favour of an
attack on Madam Smalley. He, Kimpton, as he
had already told the cousins, while engaged in
mending a certain door hinge, had heard her relate
sundry circumstances to the present lord. She knew
the facts of the case, and she alone. She must be
made to speak. Cy's face fell. Could the gentleman
who saw so far through a brick wall suggest nothing
better than that ? It was years since he had looked
on Madam Smalley, and knew not her deplorable
state. In the past, so resolute a female would have
been difficult to coerce ; now she was three parts
imbecile, and very likely could not remember if she

would, and certainly would never speak. Kimpton
was not so sure of that. When he went up to carr'
the news of the fight to Miss Eowe he had looked
in on Madam Smaller', and was perfectly aware of
her state. People said she was a witch, and had the
evil eye ; hence none communed with her who could
avoid doing so. But he, Kimpton, was not afraid of
witches, and was of opinion that the imbecility of the
old lady was rather in their favour than otherwise.
His advice was, that her lips should be unsealed by
stratagem. Of course it was no use to doff the hat
with a bow and say, " Good grandam, you have
guarded a secret for years with the vigilance of
Cerberus ; please abandon it to us now." In the
first place, she would not comprehend the request,
for she had not been quite sober for half a century
She would blink and grunt and say nothing. No.
An ingenious trap must be laid for her; a surmise
be prepared which would draw an exclamation. A
sentence, even a word, might give the desired clue.
If the worthy blacksmith had ever heard of a coup
cVetat, he would have employed the expression to
denote what it was that he suggested. The lady's
grandson growled with scorn. What was Kimpton
driving at? Sure 'twas he who had been drinking.
Draw an exclamation, quotha ! As soon draw a
double tooth. With the patronizing and self-satisfied
air of one who knows himself too clever to be readily

understood by the less enlightened, Mr. Kimpton
continued to walk up and down, whistling, as he
polished and matured his idea. It was a wild one —
some would stigmatize it as preposterous — but in
emergencies no means may be despised. Was nota
great painter saved from walking backwards over
the edge of a lofty scaffolding once, by the presence
of mind of a friend who deliberately spoiled his
picture ? Had he been warned to take care, he would
have turned round and toppled over ; but when his
friend dabbed a brush in the liquid eye of his chef-d'oeuvre,
he made an instinctive movement forward
and was saved. It was a desperate remedy, but an
effective one, the man's life being of more value
than the picture. So was the plan projected by
the blacksmith of Stratton-on-the-Fosse a desperate
remedy, and the cousins, as they hearkened, admitted
that if peculiar it was ingenious.

"We will act on her fears," explained Kimpton.
"Remorse has made of her the wreck she is, has
driven her to the Lethe of the bottle. A stubborn
will saves her from babbling, but, depend upon it, the
vision she is always gazing at in the hot embers is
the figure of that white-haired man. Eemember
what I heard her relate to my lord that day: 'He
promised to come back, ere he cursed me for my
cruelty.' Well, why should we not bring him back
BOW and see what comes of it ? We cannot reproduce

him, not knowing what lie was like ; but we can produce
something that will be quite as terrible to her
stricken conscience, coming ujDon it unexpectedly
after a lapse of half a lifetime. According to her own
statement, the interview with Roger took place at the
library window, which gives upon the terrace. We
will lure her to the spot under some plausible pretence,
and let her come lion the rescued monument''

Such was Mr. Kimpton's scheme, and Abigel agreed
that it was good.

In order that the trick should be successful, various
details had to be considered. In the first place, the
luckless woman's drink must be cut off, in order that
she might be unprotected against external shocks.
Sobriety is a terrible infliction when you are not used
to it. The breaking of a bottle or two would settle
that. Abigel would write something on a piece of
paper and leave it within her reach — this to turn her
thoughts to the interview in the library. Cyrus and
their ally would make shift to move the slab from the
vault where it had slept so long, and place it in the
window just where the moon would touch the recorded
words; and it would be strange if— startled, taken
unawares — she did not say something which should
put the watchers on the scent.

It was extremely wrong of the cousins to behave
thus to a blood relation, to form plans and place
snares for her betrayal; but young people will be

selfish, and, moreover, it must be remembered that
Madam Smalley had been to both of them a ghoul,
more given to curses than blessings — an uncanny
sorceress, who, as they grew up, obtained no part of
their affection, being only an unpleasant specimen of
an ancient dame with something on her mind. It
was essential now to delve into her harassed bosom,
and they salved their consciences for twisting the
screw into her flesh by reflecting that it would not do
her much real harm, and that they would make up
for it in brandy afterwards.

Unlucky Madam Smalley ! Hadst thou shown more
kindliness to thy flesh and blood, they would not have
turned against thee, or have twanged upon thy feelings
as on a harp ! The rustic attendant was dismissed
for a day's holiday, Miss Eowe declaring that rustics
require rest and change as much as other folk ; and
the small maiden, nothing loth to leave her lugubrious
charge, accepted the treat. Pentecost cowered over
the flames in her accustomed chair, a diabolical,
undignified old ruin. Abigel came and went, placed
a table by her side as usual, with a bottle and a mug.
The bottle was three-parts empty. Abigel was but a
careless nurse for one so helpless ; for she wandered
away out of hearing between the tall yew hedges, sat
crooning on the grass gazing down into the Fosse,
idly plucking the wild currant berries and seeing them
drift and drift, whirling in the eddies, floating on the

pools ; while the feeble voice of her grandcourt quavered
for the absent rustic. It was a long day, and the girl
was not without feelings of compunction as to the
propriety of the proceeding which the conspirators had
undertaken to carry out ; but then she reflected that
peccant grandcourt must be offered up on the altar of
injured Leo as her own heart had been — that if she
was made to suffer the pangs of sobriety and awakened
conscience it was her wicked old fault, and the only
reparation which could be made for lifelong sin. Asher
own heart had been ! Oh dear, as if she had
ever had such an article ! How should such a
shuttlecock boast of a heart — a toy bandied about
ever since her mother died, so long ago, between the
tender mercies of grandcourt and of Lord Osmington ?
It was the fault of neither that she had not come to
shipwreck away in London, cast defenceless on those
murky waters. If she had, what would they have
cared — what would any one have cared? Defenceless
? Not quite. Her own sturdy spirit and native
shrewdness had kept her straight, and would to the
end — no thanks to those who had professed to protect
and cherish her ; and then, as glittering London and
its high and mighty big-wigs passed like a show, she
cast other berries in the stream and watched their fate,
as if their meanderings would be prophetic of her own.
Three ripe red berries. They started together. That
one was Cy, and this one Leo, and the one in the
VOL. in. 48

centre Abigel. Softly they glided on, side by side,
just as the trio had done ; then Leo parted from the
rest and drifted behind a stone, while the other two,
caught by the current, went head over heels down a
miniature waterfall and disappeared. So was she to
disappear — had already done so — for none remembered
her save Charlotte, who was herself forlorn. What
folly ! This was idle and childish. She would get a
book and read. No; education was a delusion and
a snare to one situated as she was. She must learn
to give up reading — take refuge from meditation in
scrubbing and household cares — for was uot the die
cast? In darning the stockings of cousin Cy must
her future life be spent; in mending the doeskin
breeches with yellow knee-knots ; in washing out the
crimson stains due to his calling — pending the arrangement
of leeches in festoons upon his bruises.

Never was a day so long ; never did the sun-chariot
drag so wearily ! Would the night never come ? When
Abigel looked in, grandcourt was querulous, deprived of
necessary stimulant ; shivered and shook with palsy ;
rocked herself and moaned. The bottle was empty,
and there was no more forthcoming. Did she expect
her niece to trudge off to the village like a servant to
fetch brandy ? Here was a dish of tea, nice and warm.
Out on the dish of tea, odourless and tasteless !
Madam Smalley pushed it from her with a qualmish
movement of abhorrence, and sank yet lower in her

chair, like a heap of soiled garments, rocking and
moaning. The laggard chariot got down the hill at
last; twilight deepened over the landscape. Abigel
lit a candle, made up the fire, and departed to her own
chamber to abide the result of Mr. Kimpton's cleverness.
Pentecost, worn out, was apparently asleep;
for she lay back quite quietly, and might have been
dead but for the fitful quivering of fingers. What if
the carefully rehearsed comedy should fail? She
really was very imbecile and weak, ripe for the scythe
of the reaper. The days of remorseful regret must be
past long since, her senses blunted to aught but a
craving for liquor.

Well, the hours had crawled away. The suspense
of the conspirators would soon be relieved, as to
whether there was anything to be gleaned from Pentecost.
The house was ghastly in its stillness. In
spite of the over-warmed and fetid atmosphere of her
chamber, the old woman shuddered. A dreadful
emptiness was on her, an inward griping like a grasp
of ice. She writhed upwards on her cushions, and,
supported on skinny elbows, glared hungrily at the
empty bottle. " Not a drop, not a single drop ! How
cruel ! " she whispered ; and was about to subside again,
when her haggard eyes rested on a scrap of paper on
the table. She looked at it with lacklustre gaze that
saw nothing but a square of white; but gradually
the sense of what was written there dawned on her

clouded intellect in words of fire, and, clinging to the
arms of her chair, she gazed, fascinated, trembling.
She passed an aspen claw over her damp brow.
There was no delusion. The words were plain enough.
I told you I would return to where you saw me
first. — Eager." Koger return! In truth he had said
so years and years ago ; but he was dead — dead,
secure under the sod. She had reason to know that
he was dead. "What could this mean then ? No living
person knew of Eoger, except herself and Vere. She
had guarded the portals of the secret— with what
difficulty Heaven knew ; but she had guarded them.

Who, then, could Was it a warning of her own

demise ? Had he whom she had injured so returned
to earth to fetch her, to drag her up to judgment to
answer for what she had done ?

All this passed through the old lady's distempered
brain as she glared at the scrap of white. Eoger !
She would not go with him ! No ; she would not !
Help, help ! for a sliding soul just on the edge of the
abyss. Pentecost wrung her hands ; but no one
hearkened to her weak struggling, the murmur of
her feeble anguish. How still and oppressive the
night ! The crone stumbled to her feet, her brain
swimming with the effort, and tottered to the casement.
A humming of moths as they boomed against
the glass, striving to reach the candle and compass
their own death ; the Fosse glittering in the moonbeams

like a silver thread; high banks of heavy
foliage like hearse-plumes. '' Abigel ! Come hither ! "
Why did she abandon the helpless grandcourt who
had been so good to her ? An overpowering sense of
solitude flooded the old woman's soul with horror —
unnerved as she was, awakened out of a long lethargy.
She sat down on the window-seat to think. "He said
he would return, and I gibed at him. He never,
never came ! Has he come now from beyond the
grave ? No, no. The dead ride fast, straight on,
and never turn — never, for the universe is endless !
'Tis but a nervous attack, due to a want of sustenance.
To think that I, strong-minded Pentecost,
should shrink and shrivel thus ! " Summoning to her
aid her shreds of ravelled strength, she rose, strong
now, and taking a candle, glided swiftly out along the
corridor. Since oblivion was denied, she would look
into this, and satisfy her mind by going to the place
of tryst. She was no craven, not she, though very
ill. If he were come again, she would meet him as
she had done before, with upbraiding sneers. How
he had supplicated and besought, as she ejected him,
for the wherewithal to live ! Why should he live ?
What she had done before she'd do again, she would;
for her soul was not her own — 'twas given away long
since to one she had loved too well. Noiselessly she
twisted the handle of the door and entered the library ;
and with a long, low cry shrank back against the wall,

dropping her candlestick. " That thing so carefully
destroyed ! " she gasped. *' Eoger — you — where are
you? Not here, I know, not here ; for I saw you safely
buried six feet beneath the sod in the churchyard at
Crows' Liberties. You cannot leave your nameless
grave ! I tell you I will not go; I will not ! Though

all the fiends in hell George, George ! 'Twas for

your sake ! Help, help ! he's there ! Do not "

The old woman cowered on the floor, a scared and
quivering heap, with blue lips foaming, eyes bursting
from their sockets, and the concealed spectators
looked on aghast with fear. Who could have supposed
that she would have been so convulsed ; that
one so frail could be so violently torn ? Sure she
must be seized with epilepsy ! They were about to
emerge from ambush, when Pentecost staggered to
her full, gaunt height, swayed to and fro as if wrestling
with an unseen enemy, and, crying aloud with a
despairing shriek, flung her withered arms into the
air, and fell prostrate on the boards upon her face.

CHAPTER V.

A PILGRIMAGE TO THE WOLDS.

The miserable hag was borne to her chamber and
put to bed, and while remorseful Abigel applied
restoratives, the other two sinners stood by, extremely
sheepish. Pray Heaven they had not killed the crone
among them, with their precious stratagem ! 'Tis ill
playing pranks upon aged women. If he were only
sure she would not be defunct ere he returned, Mr.
Kimpton would speed to the village and purchase the
most expensive brandy to make up for the trick. She
was not going to die — not at present, at least ; for her
flickering pulse grew stronger : with heaving spasms
she fetched her labouring breath. The blacksmith
went off, therefore, and came panting back, and the
blue lips opened by instinct to receive the reviving
draught. It would not do for Madam SmaUey to find
herself surrounded by prying eyes when she recovered.
Cy and Kimpton had better go and conceal the blessed
stone again, not within the house, but where it could
easily be found when wanted. For convenience' sake

it would be well to have a tracing of that stone;
would Mr. Kimpton kindly make himself responsible
and see to that as soon as the cousins were gone ?

Listless no longer, Miss Eowe threw off numbed
sloth, resumed her pristine energy, ordered the burly
men about with domineering finger as was her
charming wont, and settled the plan of the campaign.
Pentecost was to be told she had had a fit ; that, left
alone, she had gone groping among the passages, and,
tumbling over something in the dark, had fallen on
her head. Returning to her old habits, she would
soon be reduced again to a comatose condition as
of yore, and the little contretemps would be forgotten.
Then the cousins would be off — the sooner the better
to take advantage of information gained ; for the
hag had let drop a hint, as they had hoped, of which
it behoved them to make the most. She had said
something about Crows' Liberties. Nor Cy nor Abigel
had ever heard of such a spot, but the astute Kimpton
fortunately remembered that there was a village of
the name, somewhere on the eastern side of the
county, where sheep were gathered to be shorn in
the barren and deserted Wolds. Thither, then, would
the cousins make a pilgrimage so soon as grandam
was herself. But grandam revenged herself by declining
for a while to recover. One access of delirium
followed closely on another, during the brief intervals
between which the crone lay speechless, gazing with

furtive and suspicious glances at her attentive niece.
Once she asked a feeble question as to why she was
lying there — so fluttering a question that it could
scarce take form or sound — and the story of the fit
having been related, she again became silent, apparently
satisfied. But her mind was awake and
working. The village doctor came and chatted, but
she took no heed of his babble. It was lamentable,
he declared, that once respected and respectable ladies
should take to drink. She had sunk into a piteous
condition, was verging on Dat. How a fastidious
and delightful young lady could have endured to stay
so long with one of her evil habits among the bats
and rats, he was at a loss to comprehend ; but some
women were even more angelic than the sex, as a
body, was known to be, and it had been truly heroic
of Miss Piowe to give up London and its joys to
attend on an idiotic relative. These civil turns of
rhetoric were bitter to Abigel. Since her retreat
from the metropolis, she had looked after her aunt
to the extent of supervising the proceedings of the
rustic. She could not prevent her from drinking
without using force, and was glad she had not tried
to coerce her, since the results of temporary sobriety
were so disastrous. But she objected to praise that
was not due, and she certainly had not left her
adopted home in town for the purpose of nursing
Pentecost. What did the doctor advise ? she asked,

cutting him short in his flowers of speech. Well,
really, he scarcely knew what to advise. Madam
Smalley was always — so the village gossips said —
a little mad, with magnificent ideas as to her own
prominence above other folk. She had lived her
own solitary life, and gone her " ain gait," allowing
no one to interfere with her. Well, she must go on
as before. There was nothing else for it. To
remove the brandy bottle suddenly would be to kill
her ; so she must be permitted access to it in moderation,
though, really, if something did take her off
it would be the better for the community at large.
So said the doctor, and bowing, went his way. And
Cy and Abigel, consulting with closed doors, as a
betrothed couple may do without impropriety, perceived
that grandam was not long for this world;
that the flickering flame might go out at any moment
without warning, and that they would be wise to
make their preparations. Pentecost's death would
be a signal for open war on the part of Lord
Osmington. No doubt of that. Neither Abigel nor
Cy would be allowed to penetrate any more within
the grounds of Battle Magna ; but that would signify
little, for all that was to be found there had been
discovered, and as for the future, they had settled
to go to London. The monument must make a
journey to the forge. In Kimpton's charge it would
be secure, and could be produced by him at anytime.

The next thing to be done was to proceed to
Crows' Liberties, and cross-question the oldest inhabitants.
Pentecost could safely be left for a couple
of days under the charge of the rustic. The doctor
would look in, and Kimpton, to see that all was
right.

The cousins took the coach to York, then journeyed
eastward over the great crescent of chalk hills which
closes in the vast arena between Flamborough Head
and the Humber. As they proceeded, they were
struck by the deserted condition of the district, which
for miles and miles was nothing but an immense unenclosed
sheepwalk, encumbered by no fences, bisected
by few roads — a wide expanse of green, low swelling
like the summer sea, with scarce a habitation visible.
Here and there were clumps of trees marking where
once the stag and the wild boar had been chased
among the woods ; here and there a tumulus or a
line of earthworks, haven of refuge in olden times
for men and cattle, during the frequent forays of the
borderers. Suddenly, without warning, the travellers
would come upon a grassy precipitous hollow, so
deep and steep as to check the boldest rider, at the
bottom of which would Im^k a nest of cottages, buried
away from hum of men within a verdant well, upon
whose sharp and precipitous sides the cloud-flecked
sky appeared to rest. The narrowest of sheep-tracks
meandered over the far-spreading green, as though

some caterpillar had been crawling there and left
a silver trail ; while away to the west, York Minster
reared its head like a towering sentinel, and to the
east a pale blue line was faintly visible, which told
of the Northern Ocean.

What could have induced them to settle in such
a desert ? " Abigel exclaimed. " There's nothing
alive, but rooks and sheep and jackdaws. Did they
turn shepherds ? "

Here would we have taken our farm, dear Abby,"
Cyrus whispered, with sly malice, "and have lived
happy ever after, if your ladyship had not changed
your mind."

His companion frowned. If we immolate ourselves,
surrender to despair ; vow that, as only one creature
in the universe has the good taste to care for us, we
will even throw ourselves away on him as a great
favour — it is only proper that the fortunate wight
should be fully conscious of his good fortune, and
gratefully humble to boot. Cy took the thing much
too quietly. The severance was complete between
himself and his past life. But it was an immense
relief to Abigel to feel that it was not her doing ;
that he might return to the old Adam if he would ;
that he was not tied and bound by oaths, which, being
sworn, he would, of course, be secretly anxious to
break. Abigel would have had him in a perpetual
condition of bubbling gratitude, and yet she would

not. As usual, our wayward heroine was unable to
say what she really wanted ; and the humiliating perception
of this condition of mind made her angry
with herself. This, you will say, is quite untrue to
nature. Young ladies always know their minds. They
never jib and skip aside from their own happiness ;
never say "No "when they think they mean "Yes," then
go and weep in their bedrooms, because their tongues
have spoken otherwise than was intended. They never
accept Tom and wish they had not, because, all things
considered, they think they prefer Peter; and after
shilly-shallying withdraw the promise, and end quite
unaccountably by marrying Jim. They never pine
after the moon, and, finding the luminary out of
reach, accept a modest cheese, which at least is good
to eat, considering themselves the while in the light
of ill-used martyrs. They know themselves to be
made of such superior clay as to be worthy of a Royal
Duke; but, as the Royal Duke does not happen to come
forward, they espouse the butter-man, and, the first
throes of disappointment over, settle down comfortably
enough, and find him by no means despicable.
But then they wish the vendor of "Dorset " to keep that
mythical royal personage before his eyes, and be in a
constant state of beatific admiration in that they took
him instead. He must never be allowed to forget his
inferiority. Abigel would have been vastly indignant
had anybody suggested that, after all, she was not so

sorely put upon. That halcyon time in the metropolis
tended, naturally, to unsettle her mind and warp her
judgment. She did not realize then that, nameless
protegee of a libertine lord, none were likely to wish
for her pour le hon motif, and that ultimately to be led
to the hymeneal altar by an excellent young person
in her own station of life was not like being led to
the stake. True, his profession was objectionable;
but we can't have everything. The first prizes in the
lottery fall to few ; lucky are those who do not draw
blanks. Only one fairy prince married into Cinderella's
family, and I dare say that her next-door
neighbour and playmate was obliged to be content
with the fustian. Cy was young, healthy, tolerably
good-looking, sweet-tempered, and prepared to kiss
the ground his pretty cousin walked upon. Sure to
be his wife was not so hard a fate ? What if, when
grandcourt died, she should be still unmarried ? She
might or might not have a store in a stocking, part
of which would fall to her niece. If not, penury and
starvation ; nothing else. Perhaps Miss Eowe was
really conscious of all this when she made up her
mind to accept Cy, and determined that he was to
stick to his profession ; though she buried it out of
sight. Perhaps she knew that she was fortunate in
that so honest a fellow should want a portionless waif,
and was rendered cross by the thought that, after all
her parade, she was making no sacrifice at all.

That might be so or not, but she was in no mood
for pleasantry. If we are going to contract a union
which may be worldly-wise and prudent, but which
leaves a good deal to be desired in the way of romance,
we cannot be expected to turn up our eyes with rapture.
It is sufficient if we are composedly content and
manfully determined to make the best of it. Abigel,
therefore, resented Cy's complacent allusions to the
future ; was full of the matter in hand ; astonished at
the nature of the country she was traversing, and
bursting with surmises as to what they would discover
— marvelling whether this journey was to be
crowned with success, or whether the road would
end in a blank wall, to pierce which would defy even
the penetrating optics of Kimpton, the ingenious
blacksmith.

At last the travellers reached Crows' Liberties, a
dismal spot near the source of the river Hull, a few
miles inland from the sea. If the fugitive James
Christopher really left Ireland with his family, as the
lapis-lazuli letter said, he could not have chosen a
bleaker place — one where he could have better hopes
of lying perdu, out of the grip of Justice. There
were two or three straggling cottages, some supported
by beams in guise of crutches ; a farmstead, which, in
the absence of any rival, endeavoured to look like a
manorial residence ; a row of hovels to seaward,
much like the smoky huts of the barbarous people

who, centuries before, had fed their herds and chipped
their flint arrowheads along this gloomy coast ; a
little to the left a circle of aged hawthorns ; in the
midst a crazy chapel — and that was all.

Whatever there may exist to be discovered here,"
laughed Cy, " should be obtainable in five minutes, for
there cannot be more than a dozen people in the place."

"Pray Heaven, Lord Osmington has not been
before us ! " returned Abigel, in tribulation. " The
search on this spot looks little promising."

Warned of the inhospitable nature of the district,
the cousins had slept at Garton-on-the-Wolds, and
reached the goal of their hopes about midday. The
first thing was to seek for the parson, and search
the register for Eoger's death ; for though it was
assumed that he had dwelt here, they knew not, of
course, in which house, or what was his way of life.
Was it possible that any one in this lowly place could
want a manservant ? The chapel looked as if it had
not been opened for twenty years, at least. The roof
was covered with moss and mould — in one place was
open to the weather. The churchyard was unenclosed ;
a few stones peeped out of the sod, sacred to no
man's memory. Where was the parsonage ? Sure
none of these tumble-down hovels could hold the
parson ? The travellers knocked at the lozenged
window of the nearest, which was presently opened
by a faded man, who seemed disconcerted by the

apparition of strangers. Where was the parsonage ?
Was the clergyman likely to be at home ? If the
faded man would kindly inquire at once, the visitors
would pay him handsomely. The faded man, recovering
from the effect of strange faces, ^^as tickled
by an idea, and laughed.

Ask him at once ! " he echoed. " Parson lives a
matter of seven mile away ; rides over of a Sundays
if it's fine ; if not, 'isn't worth his while. Parson
lives at Rockingham — down there. If you keep S.W.,
you'll likely come on it."

The faded man pointed vaguely across the moor,
in the direction of a gnarled tree on which a raven
sat. Beyond the sable fowl, nothing in particular was
visible. To go pounding off S.W. in search of
Rockingham, with no yokels on the way from whom
to ask the road, was hopeless. It had been a matter
of congratulation ever to have reached Crows'
Liberties at all. It was not convenient to make the
attempt, the gentleman explained, as he and the lady
had other things to do than go capering about the
Wolds, as the Israelites wandered in the desert.
They were there in the first instance to examine
the parish registers. The clerk probably lived less
than seven miles away ; perhaps for a consideration
the faded man would summon him. The latter
laughed again, a slow and bovine laugh — a whimsical
faded man with a tinge of quaint dry humour.

VOL. ni. 40

That will I," he chuckled, " for I be he ; but as for
the registers, oh hawk, oh hawk, how should I know ?
Parson keeps the key of vestry, but I doubt if there's
much there but rubbish."

What ! no registers ? "

There are registers, or used to be, somewhere."

Abigel took alarm at once.

Has any one been tampering with them ? " she
inquired so sternly as again to tickle the clerk.

Oho ! " he roared. " Yes, lady. I think the mice
have done summit in that way. 'Tain't the interest
of any one else."

No person — no gentleman," Miss Eowe proceeded ;
but she was abruptly stopped by the elbow of her
future spouse, who marked growing wonder on the
bucolic visage, and saw the imprudence of sowing
suspicion in his uncorrupted intellect.

Not as I know of," grunted the faded man. " I
can't see what folks want with registers — a heap of
trouble. When you're dead, you're dead, and that's
all about it."

It was evident that the clerk was a practical person,
who loved his ease, and who was also out at elbows.
Cyrus, placing a guinea on the window-sill, announced
that the glittering coin should be the clerk's, if he
would stir his stumps and be off after the keys. The
lady and gentleman were in a hurry. Surely ! that
he would for such a guerdon. His pray was

grazing yonder — that strawberry quadruped — lie would
saddle him in a trice ; but it was only fair for the
gentleman to know that the church contained little
beside mice and cobwebs.

Left alone, the cousins looked at each other despondingly.
Registers were evidently unfashionable
in this remote place, where service was sometimes
read if it was fine. Now that they were here, of
course they would look up the registers ; but it would
have been better, perhaps, to have gone straight to
the point, and have cross-questioned the clerk about
Eoger Jarvis. Where the population was so small,
every one was sure to know all about everybody
else, and information of some sort might be obtained.
Pentecost had certainly said something about a nameless
grave at Crows' Liberties. If Eoger was buried
here, she was right enough, for all the graves were
nameless. They wandered round the crazy chapel,
peered through the gaping chinks of the door.

'this must be the vestry. We'll know all about
it in the twinkling of a bedpost," observed Cyrus;
and, placing his broad shoulder against the woodwork,
he gave a sturdy push. The door yielded at once,
and Cy fell sprawling on his back, amid such a cloud
of dust as half suffocated Belong when he sat on the
mummy of Cheops. "Well," he grumbled, ''if the
secrets of Crows' Liberties are no better guarded,
well soon find what we want."

So soon as the atmosphere was cleared, Ahigel
commenced eagerly to search. What damp ! What
destruction ! What crumbling decay ! A rush-bottomed
chair; a dirty surplice, and a pair of rusty spurs,
hanging on a nail ; a table minus a leg ; on it a broken
pipe and some tobacco-ash ; a cupboard in a corner,
ajar. Feverishly, Abigel made for the cupboard. A
volume of Jeremy Taylor, a book of certificates of
birth. Here was a register ! Tremblingly Miss Kowe
attempted to drag it down; but, too heavy for her
slender wrists, it fell, and gaping, displayed a foul
inside, like that of a whited sepulchre. A pretty
book of registry ! As the clerk hinted, mice had
mumbled its interior ; rats had tasted of its nastiness,
and spat it out ; worms had scored the leaves ; stout
moribund bluebottles had retired within the covers,
and, decently concealed from view, had shuffled off
their coil. It was an entomological pantheon, replete
with long-legged notabilities; and, with a cry of
disgust, Abigel threw herself upon the rush-bottomed
chair and burst into a flood of tears.

Cy, with hands in pockets, looked gravely down at
lovely woman in distress, and waited till the paroxysm
was past. If lovely woman will go on forlorn hopes,
there is sure to be trouble ; and when a prey to discomfiture
and wrath, she invariably stamps her little
feet and pants with spasmodic sobs. Under such circumstances
there is nothing for mere man to do but

to be patient and hold this tongue. The province of
lovely woman is to loll on cushions and be worshipped.
If she elects to career over the Wolds for the behoof
of the indifferent, she will receive buffets on her sweet
cheek, then set the floodgates open ; and mere man,
while admitting that she is rightly served, can only
be regretfully silent.

Besides the entomological pantheon and the volume
from which the parson borrowed his discourses, there
was absolutely nothing in the cupboard except layers
of dust, an accumulation of years. Some of the great-grandchildren
of the notabilities crept about in corners,
wagging fierce antennae in that the last home of their
ancestors should be rudely desecrated. No marriages,
and no deaths — not even outer covers appertaining to
such tomes. The clerk was not in the wrong. Who
could possibly care about the life or death records of
those who habited Crows' Liberties ? Any man or
woman who could consent to spend a lifetime in such
a place deserved to be speedily forgotten.

Presently Abigel's spasm was over, and gnawing
her handkerchief, she turned her red eyes dolefully
towards her cousin. Of course he thought her a little
fool, she whimpered, even a little cranky, might be.
Well, it was for better or worse that he was to clasp
her to his breast. In years to come he must never,
never twit her with insanity. She was a poor, poor
ignorant girl, who had tr-tr-tried to act for the

best, and it was not lier f-f-fault if nothing to which
she put her hand ever up-turned out well. There
was nothing to be discovered in this ridiculous wilderness,
she sobbed. They had better give it up and go
and look after grandam.

*' By all means," replied dutiful Cyrus, with alacrity.
If she was ready to abandon the quest for good and all,
so much the better, for it was very tiresome. He was

only anxious himself about it in order to prevent ;

but that was all over, and everything was going
swimmingly. If she were tired of it and ready to go,
so was he ; for it was indeed a melancholy spot, and
the sooner they were out of it the better.
Then — so inexplicable and tantalizing are the ways
of lovely woman — short-tempered little Abigel turned
round and rent her cousin. He was a selfish wretch,
who cared for nought except his own comfort, and
ought to be ashamed of heartless indifference.

This was too much. Tart Miss Eowe would soon
be Mrs. Smalley, and it did not behove her to cast
false accusations at her betrothed. It was not for
him to recapitulate the details of long and faithful
service, but it would never do for her to be able ta
say that he snubbed her in her whim. It behoved
him to prevent possibilities of reproach in the future.
Whether he cared about it individually was neither
here nor there ; but he then and there vowed that he
had changed his mind, and swore a fearful oath, that

ill this delightful spot he and she would remain until
they had discovered something, or were convinced
that there was nothing to be discovered.

Ahigel liked him much better when he spoke thus,
with grave and virile determination, than when he
grovelled and dubbed her angel. So, beaming again
through the April shower, she held out her nut-brown
hand, and he was more exercised than ever as to what
to make of his puzzle.

"As you will, Cy dear," she replied demurely.
"You're master, you know. But here comes that
stupid old clerk on his strawberry pray. He can't
have been seven miles already."

The faded old man, puffing and blowing, explained
that he had met the parson's shepherd, and that from
him he had learnt that parson was gone to York and
would not be back for a week. " It don't matter, it
seems, though," he continued with a loud guffaw;
for I see you've helped yourselves, and trust you've
found what you sought."

You know perfectly well that there was nothing
to be found," interrupted Cja-us brusquely. " This
destruction of records is a disgrace to both you and
the parson, to say nothing of the archbishop — not
that he troubles much, I dare say, about you hermits
in the Wolds. But do you mean seriously to tell us
that there are no registers of deaths or marriages —
nothing but that loathsome cover ? "

"Not that I know of," replied the faded man.
** Afore my time it was sexton kept 'em — leastways
his wife, until she died, which she did some years
before him. Old Tabitha Jarvis kept 'em tidy, and
him too. No easy job. Little wonder it killed her."

*' Tabitha Jarvis ! " ejaculated Abigel, with heightened
colour.

'' Yes ; Tabitha, wife of Eoger, the sexton. I
should remember him, for, though he'd little to eat, he
was uncommon big, and no mistake ; and when he
died had a coffin big enough for two. An unlucky
feckless chap was Eoger Jarvis."

Eoger Jarvis ! " echoed Abigel, with clasped hands.
*' Where was he buried ? "

Yonder," replied the man, with a touch of pleasure,
in that the travellers should be inquisitive about such
a curiosity in corpses. " Under the sun-dial. There
never was a stone ; for he was the last, and it's ill
leaving such things to strangers."

The last ? He had no children, then ? "

'* Oh yes ; two girls, who went to York as house -
servants. They were fond of ribbon and finery ; and
this place is a trifle dull."

Only two daughters ? "

They went to the bad, poor giddy things. There
was a lad, too, but he 'listed early and went to the
Indies, I was told, as food for powder ; and went to
the dogs too, I suppose. Better that nor starve."

Abigel was so moved that she could not speak, but
stood with both bands clasped upon her bosom,
changing fi'om red to white. Cyrus, resolved as he
was to penetrate to the bottom, drew inspiration from
her eyes and continued to ask idle questions.

Is Jarvis a common name hereabouts ? " he
inquired innocently.

"No," returned the clerk. "These folks were
Irish, I believe. Yonder' s the cottage where they
lodged ; that one with the sharp gable and the lattice
window. There's a rare view of the sea from the top
of that hill."

Cy thanked the man and dismissed him, and the
cousins strolled up the incline to admire the promised
prospect. It was exasperating. They had actually
found Eoger at last, but merely in hearsay fashion.
No record of his marriage or his death. "Would any
court accept such evidence? And yet, fitting two
and two together, there was no doubt as to its veracity.
It was satisfactory to know that Roger's son had
"listed for a soldier. The next step was to inquire
at the house where the outcasts had roosted. A picturesque
looking abode enough, though small and
dilapidated. Although the family was dispersed, there
was some one, perchance, within who would remember
them and give further details. It was worth trying,
at all events, determined as they were to leave no
stone unturned. Cy went to the door, and rapped

with his whip. No reply. He turned the handle and
was about to enter, when some one rose from a low
settle and approached the intruder. Both the cousins
uttered a cry ; for the man standing in the doorway,
sketch-book in hand, was no other than Leoline.

Chapter YI.

THE sexton's dwelling.

Leo's pale face flashed with glad surprise when he
perceived who the tourists were that had invaded
his retreat ; and an answering flash cut through
the soul of Cy, as he looked with suspicion on his
cousin. But her tell-tale Adage answered for itself.
There was no collusion. The meeting was not prearranged.
'' What are you doing in this dismal
place ? What brought you here ? " Such were the
questions asked of one and the other ; and Leo, while
Abigel explained the purport of her visit, seemed
annoyed. " Still on that hopeless chase ! " he exclaimed
impatiently " I tell you candidly that I have
quite given it up. Indeed, I wrote to my mistress a
short time ago, stating that nothing came of the
advertisement, and that it is foolish to fret away om'
lives after a chimera. I cannot stay on for ever,
hoping and expecting that which will not take place.
She was very kind to me when I sorely needed kindness,
and my place is by her side. Ambrosia begs me

"to go, and add my feeble influence to hers. 'Tis she
needs kindness, now, poor lady — and friends too, if
all I hear is not the invention of the evil one ! "

'' Going away after all ! " ejaculated Abigel, growing
white ; and Cy could not help adding sulkily, " You're
a pretty one to work for ! "

"Yes," he said; "I shall join the Princess at
Naples ; and as it may he long ere I return, I've come
to take a last look at the dear old north, where I was
born and bred. I'm making a tour afoot, and
intended to surprise you all, by pouncing suddenly
on Stratton. See these sketches. They'll serve to
remind me of this bleak grey coast as we float on the
blue Mediterranean. This is Spurn Head at Humber's
mouth ; and this Withered ; and this Hawthorne,
where the sea has lapped and lapped into the domain
of men till the church has toppled and the shore is
strewn with coffins. A forbidding coast, and yet I
love it. This one is Carleton. Ah me ! "

What of Carleton ? " asked Abigel, marking the
sigh.

'Tis there she died," Leo replied softly. " I
sought out the barn ; here is a drawing of it. I knew
it again at once, and 'tis well I did, for none in the
place recalled the circumstance."

And after what she said, you turn your back upon
her and your ancestors," Abigel remarked, with a
touch of disdain. " Oh, Leo, it is very wrong 1 "

*' The farther I am away, the easier it will to be
forget!" sighed Leo. 'there there is nothing but
worry and delusive hope. When you cross-questioned
those almshouse women, I half believed that it would
all come right; and then, as usual, the mirage
vanished, leaving the prospect more drear. Believe
me, Abigel, 'tis you who are wrong, though I love you
very much for your faithful energy and kindness. I've
thought it all over," he added gloomily, " and I feel
that if I do not go away 'twill be the worse for me."

Miss Eowe looked frightened, and glanced at Cy.
For her sake 'twas best that he should go, but why
for his ? Yes ; since the register was gone, which
they had come to seek, perchance it would be wise
in him to depart and seek his mistress. But there
was no reason for the look of gratification on Cy's
face, as he flicked the flowers that grew at the
cottage door. How very provoking Cy could be !
Was he such a gaby as to be jealous, when he held
her promise ?

Presently Cy observed with composure, 'you
may well thank her, Mr. Jarvis ; for never did little
woman work so hard. She's got the matter nearly
clear ; but, as your honoris so indifferent, she can
let it drop now with a sound conscience. That she
has so far succeeded will at least be a comfort to herself,
sir, which will comfort me, since she's soon to
be my wife."

A shade passed over the brow of the young poet.
^' Your wife ! " he faltered, with a strange dismay.
^* It is settled ? I suspected this."

LeoHne tried hard to look pleased, but it was a
failure. Although we may sensibly conclude that a
desired prize may never be ours, and give up thinking
of it, yet does the pang come sharply when we see it
won by some one else.

'eyes!" sighed Abigel. "It is settled, quite
settled."

Here was a singular way of discussing approaching
nuptials, when bells would vie in joyousness with the
jocund rat-tat of marrowbones and cleavers. There
was no more delight depicted on the features of the
trio than if they had been conversing of a funeral.
Indeed, it appeared a matter of emulation as to which
of the three should seem most glum.

Leo muttered to himself, " What do I do here ?
Yes ; I must go."

As for Abigel, she was frightened by her sensations ;
for, so soon as she found herself again under the
spell of the blue eyes, the battlements and ramparts
which she had so carefully been building melted into
vapour, and the prospect of becoming a bruiser's
bride appeared intolerable.

Poor Cyrus, on his side, was disconsolate ; for the
way in which she said, " It is settled," struck him like
Si douche of iced water. The tone was one of resignation

and regret, rather than of content. Wincing, he
gazed at his affianced, and she smiled up at him. It
was of her will and choice that she was to be his, but
the old warning of Thomas Cribbb rang like a knell in
his ears. *' It will never answer," that worthy man
had said. Was he who loved her so to make her life
a misery ? It would not bear thinking of. Only just
now, before they came on Leoline, she was quite
pleased, and accepted with admirable propriety the
edict of her future lord. Ah, well ! as she had remarked,
it vas settled. He would do his honest best
to make her life a not unpleasant one, so there was
no use in going back on that. He was painfully convinced,
though, that the less the scribbling young
dreamer met his wife the better it would be for the
peace of the menage ; and a gleam traversed his intelligence
to the effect that it was well she did not insist
upon his leaving his profession. If they could succeed
in placing this young gentleman upon his proper
pinnacle, as seemed far from impossible now, the
breach between those two would be made wider than
ever were he to continue to be, in name at least, a
pugilist ; and then he chid himself for the unworthy
thought. How base to drag her down in order to remove
her farther from his rival ! And yet, if she was
to be his wife, it was surely his bounden duty to her
as well as to himself to remove his precious chattel out
of the vortex of temptation. But perchance he was

self-deceived. This fitful fever of hope and fear was
but the result of suspense. To possess such a chattel
was such undeserved bliss, that he might well be
pardoned for doubting the consummation of his
happiness and seeing dangers when there were none.
When the knot was tied, and she was his very own,
he could afford to laugh at the hot and cold accesses
of the past. She was certainly quite lukewarm about
this quest an hour since, when she proposed to return
to Battle Magna ; and then, a minute later, she had
been so cross ! Riddles are wearisome things. He
was not good at sounding the depths of female
motive. His resolution had been a good one, namely,
to go through with the matter to the end, which she
had found so entertaining, in order that later she
might not be able to reproach herself; and here they
were all three by chance together on the spot, so the
present was the time for action. Between them they
must do something decisive.

Leoline was amazed when Abigel unfolded her
budget, and he saw how link was joined to link ; and
the expression of dismay upon his features gave place
to quite another look of hope, which, happily for
himself perhaps, Cy was unable to interpret. So the
stone was actually found, and they stood, at this very
moment, on the threshold of old Eoger's abode ? Was
his mammy toiling thitherward all those years agone,
that she should have died so near ? Was she bent on

finding another certificate and placing it before Lord
Osmington (confident that lie would do what was
right) along with her marriage lines, for her little
boy's sake ? That must have been it. Poor soul !
'Twas as well she perished when she did, for it would
have been bitterly trying to have discovered nothing.

'' But we must discover something," cried sturdy
Cyrus. "We know exactly how things were; but
want a proof, and that proof we'll find if we drag
down this crippled tenement."

Leoline had stopped at this house on account of the
view, and was settling down to do a sketch when Cy
and Abigel appeared. Its occupant had kindly
trudged to the farm to buy some milk for his repast,
and would be back anon. Yes, there she was,
climbing the hill with a can, stopping now and again
for breath. A dame in years. So much the better.
If the clerk was a faded but jocular person, this dame
was nervous and whimpering, and appeared quite
scared by the unexampled spectacle of three strangers
on her doorstep at one time. Deary me ! Would
they step inside ? It was neat and clean, if homely.
There was bread and a bit of cheese and milk, and if
the lady would bide a bit, she would make some scones
on the griddle.

Miss Kowe, recovering her spirits — resolved to show
no wounds — begged that she would not put herself
about. The milk was opportune, for in this little

VOL. III. 50

basket were provisions — cold meat, some tea. If the

dame would heat some water, the travellers would be

luxuriously provided. While the woman placed some

sticks together and kindled a fire, Abigel observed her

narrowly. A woman of about sixty, comely and

buxom — a decent body. Could she have occupied the

house whilst Eoger lived here ? Was she a relation

of his or Tabitha's ? One of the daughters, perhaps,

who had been giddy, and gone wrong, and been

reclaimed. Carelessly, for the purpose, apparently,

of idle chatter, Miss Eowe began to ask questions. It

was a dull place. Ah, deary me, it was ! Poor folks

must not be pickers and choosers, but accept their lot.

She had dwelt in this hamlet for — Lord knows how

long — ever since she was quite small, beginning as farm

wench, then changing to household labour. In this

very house she had spent more years than she could

count. A nice house if humble, but awful dull o'

winters since the old folks passed away. Old folks ?

Her father and mother, of course. No; her master

and mistress, or rather her old friends, since being so

poor they had given her bite and sup in lieu of wages.

Mrs. Tabitha was shrill and angular, her temper

soured, poor thing, by misery ; but Gaffer Eoger was

always patient — never complaining or giving trouble

would go out and dig a grave all weathers without

grumbling, and the winds here in winter were like

knives. That's how he was carried off, and much

regretted ; for lie was good and simple, if too weak todo
successful battle against a violent inflammation of
the lungs.

"That was the poor old sexton, was it? Pity he
hadn't an assistant," quoth artful Abigel, while her
two companions listened.

"Old !• not a bit old," retorted the dame, "though
he looked old, his hair being white. Why, when that
dratted inflammation took him, he was only forty-four."

When was that ? "

"In 1792 — a dreadful November, with snow and
sleet, and farmer Jennings to be buried. He came
back shivering, and took to his bed, and never got up
again, except to get under the sod, poor fellow !
Every one was sorry when he went, except himself;
he was glad enough to go, being so wretched."

1792 ! That was the year of joy birth, Leoline ! "
Abigel exclaimed. "And since then you've lived
here all by yourself? "

All by myself — doing a bit of sewing for the folks
around, and keeping the wolf from the door as best I
could. But where all are poor we help each other, for
we all know too well the feel of a heavy hand ! "

Tell me," Abigel pursued, speaking very distinctly,
"what did the sexton do besides digging graves?
In these remote places every one does a host of things."

Do ! Nothing, poor soul ; his health was never
strong, and he so weighed down with cares ! "

*' Did he not keep the church books ? "

The woman looked up like a startled hare. " The
church books ! " she faltered. " They all tumbled to
pieces in the curate's time, who lived here once, though
there was nought for him to do. And Eoger was
angry, I mind, and so was Mrs. Tabitha, when the
curate's lady took the crumpled leaves to light the
fire ; and he said it was a shame, and took the books
away from her."

She lit the fire with the registers ! " cried Abigel.

'say, did she, and what good else, a parcel of
litter ! Madam Tabitha was for doing the same at
first, but he was stern with her, the only time he ever
was, she said, in all their married life. To please
him, she made me sew them up as neat as I knew
how."

Then, thanks to Eoger, they exist still ? " Abigel
cried, with such a ring of pleasure that the woman,
taking alarm, withdrew within her shell, and, busying
herself with household cares, declined to say anymore.


"It is right that you should know," Cyrus interrupted,
" that a great deal may turn upon those
papers. It is possible that this gentleman here may
give you a hundred guineas in exchange for some of
them. "When Roger went under the sod, as you put it,,
what became of the books you sewed so carefully ? "

"Deary me!" wailed the woman, dropping her

scones, and sitting on the floor in consternation. '' A
hundred guineas ! Never have seen half so much
in all my life ! "

Well then, you shall now, if fairly earned."

Oh, deary me, deary me ! He said they ought to
be kept," the woman continued, locking her hands
together, *' but I thought him daft, and that when he
was dead it didn't matter. Tabitha always said so,
and so did the curate's lady, and sure a humble body
like me may be excused for doing like my betters."

*' You have destroyed them ? " cried Abigel.

"They are gone," admitted the woman, all of a
tremble.

'all? every one?" demanded Cyrus, while Leo
sat like a statue, as blanched and motionless.

'the covers are somewhere," the woman said,
brightening, "with a scrap or two. Perhaps you'll
find there what you want."

A book of marriages and a book of deaths — the
covers of the volumes missing from the church — as
empty if not as loathsome as the entomological
pantheon. A few ragged and torn pages yet remained,
but nothing that could be of the slightest use
to our three travellers. They sat in a circle, utterly
despondent. 'Tis vexing when you've raised a house
of cards, if the placing of the roof should bring down
the entu-e edifice. The situation was harrowing in
the extreme, but there was no use in sitting there

like mourners at a burying. The cause of the trouble
gave vent to a series of smothered outcries, like an
Irish beldame at a wake. " Deary me ! deary me ! "
What a provoking beldame ! What is the use of
lamentation ? Let us bury our dead and be jovial.

So at least thought Cyrus, who was the first to
recover. Even when baffled and discomfited, man
must eat. The collation he had brought in a basket
from Garton-on-the-Wolds, instead of being a banquet
of triumph, was to be a commemorative repast of
funeral baked meats. So much the worse. All had
been done that was possible. 'Twas through no fault
of theirs that failure instead of victory now crowned
their efforts. *'L'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose."
If we can't have things as we will, we must take
things as they come, and make the best of them.

The food was spread upon the board, and as the trio
discussed it, Cy and Leoline talked of their plans in
low tones, while Abigel dropped salt tears upon her
bread and butter. Yes, he would go and join the
Princess — "was quite anxious to be off," Leo said.
Reports were rife that she had fallen desperately in
love with Murat, le heaii sabreur, and that, deserted
by her remnant of British following, she had fallen
among foreign thieves and Philistines. Her page
could not do much, but he might be privileged to
defend her from foreign harpies and scoundrels. His
life was empty, a very Sahara, with no rosy light on

the horizon. It would be well to be of some trifling
use before he died, or at least to make the attempt.
And Mr. Smalley was going to be married, was he ?
Well, he had the best wishes of the companion of his
youth. A treasure was confided to his care. Leoline
hoped he never would forget the value of the treasure.
His accents were solemn, like those of a parent
resigning his child.

Abigel sobbed so bitterly that she could not
swallow. The baked meats were Dead Sea fruit, and
stuck in her throat. The sympathetic and also
weeping mistress of the cottage implored her to take
some tea, and not take on. Another dish — it was so
very soothing. As for herself, she was already vastly
better, for tea was a rare luxury and calming to grief.
A little more water in the pot. The kettle was burning
to the touch, but here was a holder, made by her own
fingers, ever so long since. Abigel drank the tea, but
could eat nothing — not the merest morsel. It would
have been in better taste if Cy had refrained from
droning about his plans and way of life in the futile
to the unfortunate Leoline, who could have no plans
of his own henceforth. The girl's brow darkened as
she Hastened to the blundering of her affianced, and
she twitched her fingers nervously as a help to the
keeping of her temper. She took up the kettle-holder,
a rough thing made out of an old petticoat, and fretfully
picked the threads. It came to pieces under her

touch, and the stiffening peeped forth — a bit of paper
folded square with writing on it. The word Hans
fixed her attention. " What is this ? " she murmured.
*' Hans — Hans Jarvis ! " With hysterical movement
she detached the paper from its woollen covering, and
smoothed it on the table. It was one of the pages
from the torn book, for the tear tallied with one of the
abrasions. A certificate, yes ; a certificate of birth —
of the birth of Hans Jarvis, son of Koger Jarvis, late
of Broagh in Ireland, and Tabitha, his wife !

They had it at last, the missing link ! By a fortunate
accident the particular page in question had
been used to stuff a kettle-holder instead of to light a
fire. The chain was complete now, and Leoline was
Earl of Northallerton ! In the revulsion from despondency
to joy. Miss Eowe so far forgot herself as,
sobbing out incoherent congratulations, to fling her
arms around the young poet's neck; and as he returned
the embrace with a will, Cyrus looked grimly
on. Now, just for once, but never more. Cy too was
glad on his own account, for the wall was built, the
coping placed. The baked meats were become a feast.
Liberties are permitted in a saturnalia. He had
learnt that in London. He was so pleased himself,
reflecting dear Abby's gladness, that he seized the
new lord's hand in his own great manley, and gave
it such a shake as caused it to sting again. The mistress
of the cottage knew not which to do, whether to

cry or laugh. Only to think that Fortune should
befriend her after all ! Whatever should she do with
a hundred golden guineas ? The book and the torn
leaf? — of course they might have them and welcome.
So the handsome young gentleman was Eoger's
grandson, and Eoger was himself an earl ! Deary,
deary me ! How like a fairy tale ! Whoever could
have dreamed of such a thing? What a thousand
pities the patient fellow had not survived to take his
share of joy. But nothing ever did or could succeed
with him. Some folk's career on earth is so uniformly
black, so chequered with any light, that sure they
must have a high time of it on the next stage, or
"twould be most unfair. Eoger, who had never injured
a creature in his life, had reaped nothing but
sorrow unalloyed. Maybe he was looking down at
that minute and smiling his invisible congratulations
to his lucky grandchild. And now she came to think
of it, she had a box which had been Eoger's, and
which she had taken to herself as ^a kind of perquisite
and memento of the deceased ; for had she not closed
his eyes and laid him out, and no blood relation near ?
'Twas but a meagre thing, used by her as a workbox;
and whenever she used it, she always thought of Eoger,
and called a blessing on his memory.

Leoline took it up with something akin to awe. A
small casket of ebony and ivory, with the family arms
on the lid blazoned in colour. A launch vert upon

a field or ; the same design as on the seal his mother
gave him. The cognizance of the Northallertons, the
only relic left to the hapless fugitive in his banishment
to remind him of what he had lost.

lo triumphed Let the trumpet to the clarion
speak! Beaming with joy, Miss Eowe resumed the
command of the expedition, abdicated in despairing
waywardness. The trio must return to Battle Magna,
and, with helpful Kimpton's aid, marshal their forces
to oust the usurper. Eoger's housekeeper would have
to journey up to London. She would not mind that,
if amply paid. So must the clerk and the Stratton
almshouse women and the monument. But the plotters
must be very cautious, careful to make no false step.
Would it be prudent, with so strong a hand, to show
their cards to Pentecost ? To make her understand
that the game was played out, since they knew all ?
Assured of this, she would probably confess, which
would simplify matters charmingly — not but what
they held everything that was essential. Cy was for
not troubling his grandam, but he was overruled ; for,
as Abigel cogently observed, the wicked old woman's
soul had been long in travail, and 'twould be a kindness
to allow her to repent and wash white her scarlet
sins. If Cy was afraid to face her, Abigel was not.
When was she ever afraid ? She would go straight
to her aunt and speak the truth, and see what came
of it. But this deed of signal prowess was not required

of her. When the party reached ,
they found Kimpton awaiting them before
his forge. Madam Pentecost Smalley had been taken
with apoplexy, and, after lying some hours speechless,
had gone to her account. What would my lord
Osmington do now ?

ABIGEL BOWE.

CHAPTEK VII.

CLAREMONT.

If the wayward Abigel was unfortunate in her matrimonial
prospects, her dear friend Charlotte seemed
likely to fare better, in spite of papa's frowns. The
Prince Kegent could not forgive her conduct in the
Orange fiasco, for to the mind of a Grand Signor the
aggressive obstinacy of a minx is not to be pardoned.
Time was going on, and it became imperative to settle
her somehow. What was to be done with this bouncing
woman ? My lady Hertford still murmured over
her tambour, "Find a husband;" and stout Telemachus
grew quite angry with Mentor for suggesting
the impossible. He declined to pit himself against
his daughter any more ; for it was undignified, and he
knew by experience that he was sure to get the worst
of it. She was terribly popular, too ; for whenever she
appeared in London, a mob pursued her carriage and
would not cease hallooing until she kissed her fingers
from the window. That mob was pestilent in its
behaviour — always making itself objectionable one

way or another. T'other day it was corn laws and
famine prices of bread ; now it was something else.
Tired of pelting ministers, it began to attack the
Regent again. The rapacious, discontented mob was
for ever complaining, growling, and showing its teeth.
Taxes, rent, tithes, were a grievous burthen, lamented
the yokel. An over production of manufacturing
laboured the town-bred grumbler, deprived of the
war monopoly of a foreign market, was left on the
hands of the producer, and the manufacturing capitalist
was reduced to ruin. Could the Grand Signor
help that ? The simple fact was, that the nation found
itself compelled to pay the price of past military glory
and objected strongly to the process. An inclement
season and a bad harvest filled up the measure of
public calamity. Tumults, nocturnal outrages, were
of daily occurrence. Distressed workmen threatened
the rich and violated public decency, or appealed to
public sympathy by harnessing themselves like brutes
to waggons and drawing them from town to town.

Retrenchment and economy were bandied about and
became cant phrases — two words which, as we have
had occasion to perceive, did not exist in the vocabulary
of the Regent. To one who never could be made
to understand the value of money, such words meant
nothing but discomfort. The only economy which he
was privileged to see was his mother's, and the parsimony
of the Queen commanded no respect, for indeed

she was a wrinkled old miser, and hoarded up her
gold for no more useful purpose than kissing the dear
guineas. Ministers were strongly opposed to economical
reform, and abetted their lord and master. So
when deputations came babbling of a pensioned oligarchy
and remonstrating about corruption and a
venal Parliament, his Koyal Highness declined to
listen, and, secluded within his own domains, invented
new teapots and chandeliers, designing gorgeous
decorations. But shut himself up as he might,
domestic concerns would obtrude themselves within
the sacred saloons of the Pavilion. The question was
constantly obtruding itself, "What was to be done
with the minx? " Set her up in an establishment of
her own her father would not, at least until she was
married; for he had sworn by all his gods that it
should not be so, and it was not proper that a buxom
hoyden should bring dishonour on the hairs of the
paternal casey. If one thing goes right in this world,
another is certain to go wrong. The Dreadful Woman
was misconducting herself abroad even more flagrantly
than a fond husband had a right to hope. In that
direction things were going well, and the sun of possible
divorce began to glimmer through the clouds.
The persons by whom she was surrounded were even
lower than the boon companions of " Trou Madame ; "
and so great was the horror she inspired, that her
arrival in a town was the signal for the flight of the

British consul, ^vllo straightway shut up his shutters,
and locked his doors, and vanished into space. This
was, of course, delightful, for it afforded a glimpse to
foreigners of the long-endured sufferings of the Prince.
His liss being hermetically sealed, it was satisfactory
that she should show herself of her own accord in her
true coloiu's. But on this subject of divorce ministers
were unsympathetic. An attempt to bring about such
a consummation would be as dangerous now as in the
past. Moreover, w4iat would they do about witnesses ?
Caroline was almost entirely surrounded by foreigners,
and foreign witnesses would be looked on with suspicion
by John Bull, within whose thick skull was an
ineradicable conviction that all foreigners were murderers
and liars, capable of any enormity. George
refused to believe his ministers, and declared that
his prospect of freedom grew brighter every day.

Other things, however, were not so rosy. It was
a painful fact that his Royal Highness was no longer
so young as he once had been (even he could not
help perceiving it), and that the Nemesis of a wild
youth hovered over his middle age. Though his
legs were admittedly splendid, and the general
effect of the frogged stout vastly fine, there was a
difficulty about the sjdph-like symmetry of the too
obtrusive royal bow-window, and his feet were
attacked with gout. He was still a handsome
man, with the same marvellously whining smile and

polished manners, but he was unable to conceal a
certain wheeziness Y/hich recalled the breathing of a
pet spaniel, and found it hard to be jocund and jaunty
with a burning sensation in his toe. It was all very
well to remark that cats are the handsomer for embonpoint.
Some people don't mind growing old, can look
with placidity at silver hairs and resist the temptation
of the tweezers ; to others, the march of the old gentleman
with the scythe is an abiding horror. If he
had no more to bear than that, you may say, he was
unusually fortunate, since all must die in turn ; but,
indeed, his gout was a sore trial, and soured the sweet
temper which his associates justly admired. Gout or
no gout, that question required an answer : What was
to be done with regard to the great girl ? Lady Hertford
urged in vain that the mob would be making a
grievance of it soon, if the heiress presumptive were to
remain a spinster. But papa was obdurate. If she
would not take a husband of his choosing, he would
wash his hands of the matter. This was very awkward,
for Charlotte could not rush about by herself
from Court to Court, and put herself up to auction
like a wench at a statute fair. There is no knowing
what catastrophes might not have arisen out of this
difficulty if the puzzle had not fitted itself together
of its own accord. What a relief it was to all
parties concerned when the gay philander, who
had flirted on Brighton beach and sighed and ridden

away after the usual fashion of deceivers, suddenly
returned in the attitude of a genuine pretend, and
demanded the hand in marriage of the heiress
presumptive to the Crown ! He was just the very
man. Well educated, thoughtful, with the melancholy
beauty which Lord Byron had made the mode.
Prince Leopold of Saxe-coburg, too, was a younger
son — in this case an advantage — for nothing need
draw him away* from England, where Charlotte was
determined to reside. Before it had been chiefly on
her mother's account that she wished to stop at
home; but having put her foot down, and having,
moreover, tasted a little of the sweets of popularity,
she resolved to stand to her guns, preferring old
maidenhood to surrender. His Koyal Highness said
nothing. He was loftily indifferent, and referred
the question to the Queen. She decided that this
match would do as well as any other, and that as
Charlotte was satisfied, and promised to be good, the
pretend, although a pauper, had better be accepted.
Such unwonted calm and peace fell upon the Court,
that it scarce knew itself in the strange disguise. Had
they all tumbled by chance into the Garden of Eden,
or what was the meaning of this foretaste of millennium
? At news of the match, the mob ceased howling.
The two Charlottes, who had been wont to snap
and bite, drove about in a glass coach sweetly smiling,
embracing now and again in the face of an admiring

VOL. III. 51

populace like gushing, affectionate angels. His Royal
Highness, coercing the pain in his toe, skipped gaily
about Carlton House, and received his mamma and
daughter with greetings of interest love. People
who were ignorant of what had gone before were
moved to tears by the contemplation of so heavenly
a spectacle as this united happy family. Sure so
devoted a group was never seen — one which knew
naught of scratching, or hot water, or the washing of
foul linen. As for Leopold, [he moved among the
throng, a sadly placid Corsair — an amiable Manfred —
just the sort of lover to win an emotional maid. All
the royal brothers, too, laying aside for the nonce
their petty jealousies and hatreds and covert squabbling,
joined in the beautiful tableau. Pity there
was no great historic painter living then to limn the
glorious scene. Jovial York, radiant and jolly, clasping
the hand of Kent, of whom he was so very fond ;
Cumberland hard by, his imprudent match forgotten,
embracing his mamma, who would never receive his
wife; England's Hope kneeling beside Manfred, on
the rich carpet of the great crimson drawing-room at
Carlton House, with papa hovering like a stout but
graceful fowl, hiccupping from behind his pocket-handkerchief,
" Bless you, my dearest children ! " I vow
'twould make a touching picture, but as in grand
historic pieces a taste of allegory is permissible, I
would put in the lion and the lamb, and the tiger

and the kid, lying amicably side by side among the
gilded furniture.

So Charlotte married Manfred and was happy ;
for he was a very good j^oung man, and set himself
forthwith to curb her boisterous manners and check
the exuberance of her tongue. And under his tutelage
she improved daily, for sure never did a girl struggle
up to womanhood under less promising auspices. No
wonder the people loved her, for under the roughness
and tomboyishness was a heart of real gold, and a
nature whose sterling worth was shown by the way it
surmounted its difficulties. Just think of the travail
in generis of the poor innocent, inexperienced soul !
When Manfred appeared, a kind and judicious schoolmaster,
she was grateful for his wise coercion, thankful
to cling to a strong arm that was to lead her out
of darkness ; and that she should have been so, proved
her unlikeness to her mother and the healthy strength
of her character.

The marriage and consequent emancipation of the
Princess brought good to others besides herself. She
was not rich, but comfortably off as princesses go ;
and at Claremont, which was bestowed on her as a
pied-parterre, the judicious schoolmaster was also a
cautious house steward. He supervised the butcher's
book and sternly harangued a graceless and felonious
green grocer, and put to unutterable confusion and
flight a cook who purloined the dripping. Indeed,

both household and tradespeople pronounced that
"surrenders was hofful cheese paring," and that they
ought to be relegated to their original garrets, instead
of being permitted to batten upon England. The
profusion of Carlton House, with its delightful perquisites
and waste, was not imitated at Claremont ;
therefore her Royal Highness was not without money
in her purse, although she was comparatively poor.
And one day, upon returning from a ride with the
Corsair, she found a pleasant surprise awaiting
her. A little lady, with a crisp curly head, and a
modest garb of woollen stuff, was sitting in the hall.
Her costume was simple and countrified, and other
Pharaohs had arisen who knew not Joseph ; and,
pampered creatures that they were, they would have
turned so modest-looking a petitioner away. But
Miss Kowe was not one to be routed by a pampered
valetaille. She observed calmly that the Princess
Charlotte was a dear friend of hers — the dearest
female friend she had in all the world — and that she
would sit in the airy hall and enjoy the summer
sweetness until her Royal Highness should come home.
There was a determination about the little lady which
awed the pampered menials, and, as she was unarmed
with weapons of offence, they allowed her to have her
way. Charlotte, in due course, came cantering up to
the hall door in a Eegency hat, like a naval captain's,
bedizened with a gold-lace band, looking very pretty

in her happiness and new sober manner ; but at sight
of Miss Eowe, the lessons of the schoolmaster were
scattered to the winds, and she flew across the marble
floor with hoyden haste and arms extended, and fell
plump into the lap of Abigel, having caught her feet
in her habit. The Corsair was not angry, for dearest
Charlotte's heart must be allowed to speak sometimes,
though it was reprehensible to stumble over
her skirts. This should be the subject of a lecture on
a more fitting occasion. Meanwhile, Charlotte must
be permitted to embrace her friend, and hear the
latest news.

My dearest darling girl ! " cried the gleeful
Princess, "you've known me as a cage-bird. Now I am
free as air ; and I know it can't last, for I'm a poor
erring creature, and this is heaven. I'm quite, quite,
quite happy, my sweetest Abigel. What do you think
of that, Miss? Don't you think I ought to be
afraid?"

That any one should be quite, quite, quite happy did
appear to Abigel a dangerously abnormal condition of
things, unsuited to the ways of earth ; but to see anyone
so was a deliciously new sensation to her, all the
more curiously enjoyable in that for her own part
she aspired to nothing of the kind. '* So my dear
princess is happy?" she said, with a bright smile.
"I am so glad, and it lies with me to make her
happier still."

Quick ! How is that ? " asked Charlotte, who had
dragged her friend into her bedroom, and was working
herself up to the requisite pitch for an entrancing
exchange of confidences and a good hearty cry.

It lies with me to show how you can be of signal
service to a friend, and win the undying gratitude of
two persons. Will not that make you the happier ? "

Of course it will. Anything for dearest Abigel.
What is there to be done ? "

Then Miss Eowe related to the Princess the result
of her stay in Yorkshire. It had been a long stay —
a weariful agglomeration of fatiguing months — endless
and soul-harassing; but it was over now, and
Miss Eowe had come south for good.

How delightful ! " cried Charlotte.

But Abigel shook her head. "I belong to another
and a humbler sphere than yours. For a brief period
of folly I was in a false position, but that is over forever.
It will not be well for your Royal Highness to
have so lowly a friend as I. Prince Leopold would
object to it, and rightly. I know my place, and shall
love you always — from a respectful distance."

"Prince Leopold will like what I like ! " blurted out
valiant Charlotte. "Besides, after slaving and grubbing
for this man, he will, of course, marry you. It
will be a nice and poetic termination, and the
Countess of Northallerton will remain my honoured
friend — my sister ! "

Abigel turned deadly pale and trembled. *' No,
no ! " she murmured. " Don't think of such a thing.
He would not wish it, nor I ! Marry me out of gratitude
? Never ! I do not love him."

Charlotte looked at her friend and knitted her smooth
brow. '' That's a fib, my dear," she remarked slowly.
"But I understand your pride, which is right and
maidenly. If you did not care for the man, why
should you have slaved as you have done? I've asked
myself that all along. But, at the same time, it
mustn't be out of gratitude. I know more than you
think. Has he never spoken, or looked as if he
wished to speak ? Men are so stupid ! "

Abigel grew more confused and pained. Why would
nobody believe that her conduct was induced by pure
philanthropy and love of right ? Was it graven on
her sleeve that she loved Leoline? Must she bury
herself beyond human ken that none should read the
secret ? It was visible apparently to all the world,
patent to every one, except the two persons whom it
most concerned. Leoline, up in the clouds, beheld it
not ; nor Cyrus, her affianced husband. It was a
mercy that Cy should suspect nothing. Her husband !
The word had a new and dreadful ring, now that fora
second time her hidden love was brought home to
her — pulled off the altar, where Cupid had so long
been grilling in vain. She would be true to Cyrus, as
Cyrus was true to her, having given her word. That

her friend should not be led away by false impressions,
Abigel, in her native truthfulness, told Charlotte
about Cyrus, and the gladsome face of the
Princess grew very grave and dark. " You're mad ! "
she said ; " quite mad. You've no right to wreck
your own existence thus, any more than you have a
right to buoy up this honest fellow with false hopes.
It is cruel to him, the behaviour of a coquette. You
are not one, I know ; but it looks like it. What will
your life be ? Just think of it ! In the midst of surroundings,
each one of which will sicken you till the
acuteness of your sense is blunted. You may bear a
distasteful thing once or twice or thrice, but all your
life — every day and night and hour ! My dear, just
think of it ! Think of having to pray that your nature
may be coarsened. You are a sweet child, but only
fit for Bedlam ! "

Charlotte assumed the manner of a matron who
knew the world. Abigel was provoked. "To you,"
she said, " has fallen the blessed lot which is given
to few women. You are desperately in love with a
man, and he with you, and fate has permitted you to
have him. How many of the great ladies of this
Court have loved wildly and fiercely, and been obliged
to marry some one else ? You do not know Cyrus as
I have learnt to know him. The truest, the most
unselfish, the most singleminded of men. In his
humble station he is as good even as Prince Leopold,

if not as handsome. I a coquette indeed." The
blood mantled in Abigel's cheek as she enumerated
the excellences of her cousin. In sooth he was truly-admirable,
and she liked him very much ; for he
treated her with the unconscious chivalry of an ancient
knight, who went forth against dragons and griffins asa
pastime, and brought back their reeking brimstone
tongues to win a gracious nod.

Can you really be in love with the celebrated
Sprig of Myrtle ? II ne masquerade que gas laughed
the wise matron Charlotte, wheeling round. " My
dear, I will get you a strait-waistcoat, and shave ois
those little curls. I always liked your big cousin.
In those ghastly days at Warwick House his bluntness
amused me, and I admired in him the qualities
of an upright, honest, English yeoman, one of those
good men who are numerous, thank God, among the
British lower class. But to want to marry him !
Although he's your blood relation, 'twould be a
mesalliance. You are a refined and cultured lady.
You the wife of a boxer ! You do the honours of
his public-house to the Corinthians behind the bar !
Faugh ! Vraiment, ma cohere, tic es impayahle, etje fen
fais mes compliments I "

Here was the same picture which Cribbb had drawn
for the warning of his boy. Abigel was silent. How
could she explain to railing Charlotte that the refined
and cultured lady was a cork upon the waters, a

being with no money and no friends except this
bruiser ; one who, moreover, from her bringing up
had no means of earning a livelihood ! Grandcourt
Pentecost was dead, and had left sparse savings, and
her niece had no right to place her foot any more
within the grounds of Battle Magna ; she was a
forlorn and houseless wanderer. It is so easy for
those who are cosy in a snug corner of the harbour
to scoff at the labouring smacks that buffet with
the waves without. She could not say, " The bar
of the public-house and a sopped toast is preferable
to the gutter and no food." It would be to
place herself in a false light, for she would rather
starve than marry a man merely for bread and
butter. A coquette. She really and honestly liked and
respected Cyrus, and was satisfied that it was in her
power to make him happy if she tried, even if that
enviable state was denied to herself ; and it is
admissible to suppose that her lonely condition may
have helped to brighten the possibility of life with
him, though she would have scorned to be guided
alone by such a motive. But she could not tell
Charlotte this, more especially as the latter would
have instantly opened her purse strings, and have
insisted on becoming her banker.

She had come for money, but not for her own use.
The chain was complete which united Leo and the
peerage; but preliminary expenses were inevitable

before Lord Osmington could be made to disgorge.
Of course he could fight tooth and nail, throw difficulties
in the way, and harass the foe by every means
in his power. If he found them out, he would probably
(having no principle) endeavour to bribe the witnesses.
It was essential to have the command of
a few hundred pounds, which, when he came to his
own. Lord Northallerton would gladly refund.

Charlotte acquiesced at once, was enchanted so to do
for many reasons, and smiled waggishly the while,
being inwardly resolved that the fortunate youth and
the candidate for a strait-waistcoat should be indissolubly
bound together through her means. With
her matronly dignity had come into being the inevitable
love of matchmaking. She had known Leoline
ever since she was a child, and had promised in the
old, old days to do wonderful things for him. He was
an excellent creature, and so was Abigel. They were
made for one another ; and Charlotte promised herself
the pleasure of upsetting importunate barriers.
What is the use of being a Princess if we cannot
on occasion be a Dea ex machine ? He was her absent
mother's protege too; and Lord Osmington was a horrid
wretch, whom it would be a joy to topple over. She
was in the habit of looking on him as one of her
father's evil geniuses. What an extra satisfaction,
then, to assist in plunging him into outer darkness
among the teeth-gathers !

Abigel was a clever girl, a valiant paladin. Leopold
would admire her as much as her old friends, and
would give sapient advice, such as might prove of
signal use. The Corsair was summoned into conclave
without further delay, and, after cautiously considering
the various points, gave it as his opinion that Charlotte
might assist the budding peer and poet. The
chain being complete, common justice demanded that
the Earl should have his own, but he strongly deprecated
the attitude of his Princess, in that she displayed
unchristian peacefulness with regard to the usurper.
Volubly she objected that her misery at Warwick
House had been partly due to his mischievous
counsels, that by him her father's natural urbanity
had been changed to gall ; whereupon the schoolmaster
cried, " Doucement ! doucement ! " and pointed
out that but for the troubles of Warwick House and
the numberless scrimmages there, his beloved Charlotte
would have become Mrs. Somebody else, and
never Madam Leopold. Upon this, as may be supposed,
Charlotte fell into his arms and embraced him
tenderly, and emerged presently from out his waistcoat
with moistened eyes and a red nose. He did not
comprehend English laws, explained the schoolmaster.
But Miss Eowe was so clear-headed and so resolutely
energetic, that she doubtless knew what ought to be
done. She did — that is, she had inquired, Abigel responded,
blushing ; but there was some one somewhere

in the shrubbery who had been to make inquiries,
and, turning out preternaturally sharp, had written it
all down. Charlotte looked at her demure friend,
whose eyes were innocently directed to the carpet, and
laughed so loud that the schoolmaster was forced
to say " Doucement." " Keally she is impayahle,''
declared Charlotte, with an apologetic giggle. " Do,
dearest Leopold, run out and fetch him. 'Tis le beau
cousin. I might have known he was here. You'll
know him by his fists and shoulders." By-and-by the
Prince returned with Mr. Smalley, who looked pink
and confused ; but recovering himself, produced a piece
of paper, which he had had from Mr. Shepherd, the
Attorney-general. It was as simple as A B C, that
gentleman had declared, if the chain was solid. Dignities
may not be lost through the negligence of any
of the persons entitled thereto in not claiming them
within a special time. If the case was pronounced
clear by the Attorney-general and an emissary from
the Herald's College, the Regent would be requested to
issue a writ of summons, and the new peer could take
his seat at once ; but if there were rival claimants, it
might prove less simple, and be referred to a committee
of the House of Lords, who might chatter
frivolously over it for weeks, and even months.

Abigel smiled contemptuously. Her case was as
clear as daylight, and there could not possibly be
other claimants ; for was it not satisfactorily proven

that Eoger was, if not the only, the eldest son of the
fugitive, and that Hans was his only son? She
wished to make the pedigree correct and shipshape,
and therefore she intended to take note of Miles and
Dorcas, the other children of James Christopher, for
'twas hard they should be out in the cold, even
though dead. The documents were safe, labelled
methodically ; and the precious monument was in a
box at Stratton, ready to move to town with all the
cloud of witnesses. The case was complete — without
a flaw.

I would not complicate the matter with unnecessary
witnesses," objected the pragmatical Corsair ;
to which the maiden responded that peerage cases
differ from others, in that hearsay evidence is admitted,
and even courted, for 'twould be impossible to
establish descents according to the strict rules whereby
contracts are established and property regulated.
The evidence of any living witness of what passed
within the short time of his own memory would often
be insufficient, and there is no other way of knowing
the evidence of deceased persons than by the relation
of others, of what they may have been heard to say.
So saith the law, as expounded by the ingenious Mr.
Cruise. Hence, in order to crush and relegate my
lord Osmington to his place among the teeth-gathers.
Miss Eowe had marshalled a phalanx of
hags and aged men who each had anecdotes to relate

which would fit into the roll of history, and she was
ready to produce the cohort at fitting time and season.
The simplicity of the whole thing was delightful ;
and Charlotte, as she clapped her hands, vowed that
she would journey to Battle Magna to see the new
earl make his triumphant entry. Why, if Abigel was
quick about it, the matter might be settled before
winter. Charlotte would have a new gown for the
occasion — pale blue and silver. Yes, that would bethe
most becoming. Perhaps it had better be ordered
at once; which ravishing proposition was met by
another 'inducement," and a cold-blooded suggestion
that chickens ought not to be counted before they are
hatched. Charlotte bowed her fair head and blushed,
for she knew something that was not yet announced
to a delighted nation, and admitted that the schoolmaster
was right as usual. But before allowing the
cousins to depart, she exacted a promise that they
would keep her au courant of all that passed, and that
they would inform Leoline thai a warm welcome
awaited him at Claremont.

Chapter VIII.

CHECK.

The warning of the sage of Claremont anent chickens
was wise, for it was soon evident that the charming
costume of blue and silver would not be required for
some months to come. When the insolence of certain
snakes which he had warmed in his bosom became
completely known to my lord Osmington, he flew ina
fury, which ended in abject tears. It was just like
the baseness of the world to take advantage of a poor
nobleman's enfeebled health, to undermine the comfort
of his latter days. He had treated this vermin
with kindness, and, lo, the ill-conditioned scum bit his
generous hand. That Pentecost should have died
was some consolation, but she might have had the
grace to do so several years earlier, whereby the
machinations of the scum would have been nipped in
the bud. It was horrid to know that they were
poking their noses about where they had no business,
although my lord was pretty sure that their researches
would prove fruitless. My lord, as we know, had

been assured ever so many times by Pentecost that
she and his father had made things comfortable ; it
was not unamusing, therefore, to a mischievous nature,
to allow the girl to ferret among the chairs and tables,
convinced that she would reap nothing but cobwebs
for her labour. My lord troubled himself little with
what she might be doing, but he was seriously
annoyed by the conduct of Madam Smalley's grandson.
That insolent bruiser had dared to trounce
Caleb Ann after he, the President of the Pugilistic
Club, had formally announced that he was incapable
of doing so. He had, moreover, returned afterwards
to Yorkshire, from whence my lord had lured him by
ingenious means. As he drove back to town from
Kingston on the afternoon of the eventful day, my
lord breathed fire and sulphur, and gave vent to
such strings of curses as even to surprise his groom.
There was nothing that he would not do to ruin those
two men. Cyrus should be pressed and sent aboard
ship away to the Spanish Main. He had threatened
to see to it long ago. Caleb should be hunted down,
prevented from making professional engagements —
utterly undone. They both should rue the day when
they presumed to flout their master. But as the hours
waned, my lord's resentment cooled. He had to put
up with many a jest anent his losses and prophecies,
and listen to the praises of Cyrus sung in duet by his
Grace of Beaufort and Lord Worcester.

VOL. m. 52

*' Hang it ! " his Grace cried, as he showed his fine
person in White's window, ** the fellow is cutting his
own throat ; with such skill, such rapid improvement,
he might do anything. What does he mean by retiring
at his age, when I offered to be his friend ? "

We'll keep our eye on him, at all events," chimed
in Lord Worcester ; "for no doubt he'll change his
mind."

Lord Sefton cried " Hear, hear ! "

And so Lord Osmington, in a calmer moment,
judged that, watched by such powerful protectors, it
would be imprudent to attempt the pressing. But as
his venom must ooze out somewhere, lest repression
should cause him to explode, my lord looked round fora
scapegoat whereon to wreak his spite, and pitched
upon the unhappy Caleb. He never heard of the
interview after the battle, and the precious piece of
intelligence communicated by Ann to Cyrus, or his
vengeance would have been more unrelenting even
than it was. He only knew that Caleb had disappointed
his hopes, and behaved like a dolt and an
idiot, and caused my lord himself to appear in an
unenviable light. He accordingly sent for Mendoza,
and bade him, on pain of his eternal displeasure and
enmity, to drop Ann, a proceeding to which the
Jewish hero was nothing loth, since his candidate for
fistic honours, disappointing and unruly at all times,
had proved a grievous failure, and covered his friends

■witli opprobrium. So the miserable Ann when he
rose up from his bed — recovered from wounds and
bruises — found himself utterly forlorn, and having, by
reason of his ruf&anly and rowdy manners, made few
allies, knew not which way to turn. He hung about
the Fives-comets and got the cold shoulder there,
sought at Limmer's for ancient topers who had been, in
more halcyon days, only too glad to imbibe prime port
at his expense, but who avoided so unpopular a character
when he had no money in his purse. He grew
angry and desperate, and was haled before the beak
-at Bow Street by robin redbreasts for misdemeanours
and street-brawling, and di-lifted soon within the purlieus
of the Fleet, dirty and out at elbows. Cyrus,
he knew, was gone to the far North, out of reach, or
he would have turned to him in his trouble. He
scrawled a line to Mr. Cribbb, begging for his address ;
but the latter disapproved of the Pink, and declined
the required information. He even humbled himself
before his patron, entreating mercy and assistance;
but my lord curtly reminded the petitioner that he
owed him thirty pounds, and ought to be ashamed of
his impudence. So the once splendid Pink of Bow
dropped into the poorer side of the debtors' prison,
and seemed like to lie shivering there for life.

My lord was justified in complaining of enfeebled
health. If the gay youth of his Royal Master had
weighted his middle age with gout and other disagreeable,

the increasing years of my lord Osmington
were fraught with a multitude of drawbacks. Until
revived with cordials and cunning recipes, he lay like
a corpse of a morning, under the hands of valet and
barber. His memory grew weak and fitful ; his prematurely
wrinkled brow throbbed with constant headache;
his hands fluttered so that he had much ado
to raise a glass to his lips. Under these circumstances
his temper did not improve, and the temporary
denizens of the Ark vowed that to live with such a
bear necessitated a flow of presents. He grew so
broken and despondent that one of the houris,
plunging into his chamber, thought that he was
dying ; whereupon she commenced to remove his best
Dresden china, and to lay hands on his rings and
snuff-boxes. This acted as a pleasant astringent to
the invalid, for my lord was a thorough cynic. From
under his laced nightcap he gazed with a wicked grin,
and suddenly rising like a ghost and tugging at the
bell, ordered the hussy to be seized and dragged before
the magistrate. Little contretemps of this description
were exhilarating to one of his style of humour ; buta
cabal for his utter ruin was quite another affair.
Like Richard before Bosworth, he groaned and kicked ;
but goaded by the gravity of the situation, he donned
his helmet and breast-plate. What had the wretches
found? — what had they discovered? Had Madam
Smalley made confession on her deathbed? It was-all

important to Imoww that. By his instructions Mr.
Secretary wrote to the Yorkshire agent for details on
the subject. Did the lamented housekeeper send for
the parson ? and did her attentive niece close her old
eyes? Were the tenants still making donkeys of
themselves '? What was happening at Battle Magna ?
The agent's reply was consoling. The West Hiding
dragged on its monotonous existence, each township
duller than its neighbour. Madam Smalley was
taken with a fit, was speechless when the doctor
came, and dead before the arrival of her relatives,
who chanced at the time to be away. This was vastly
comforting. Clearly Pentecost had carried her secret
to the grave. The aggressive attitude on the part of
young Jarvis and his adherents must be mere bravado,
to induce my lord, if possible, to uncover the chinks in
his armour. They really knew nothing, but pretended
that they did, in hopes of making him commit himself.
It was fortunate that, though perhaps unduly
careless on the whole, my lord had taken certain
precautions in case of these silly people continuing
to pry. Since they threw down the gauntlet, he would
take it up, and plunge them into a labyrinth of
difficulties.

When Leo and his allies called, after a brief delay,
on the Attorney-general at his chambers in Sergeant's
Inn, and begged him to name an early day for the
hearing of their case, they were filled with consternation.

Sir Samuel Shepherd announced, as he mended
a pen, that complications had arisen. The newspapers
having stated that the Earldom of Northallerton
(supposed to be extinct) was about to be-claimed
under romantic circumstances, other claimants
had suddenly come forward, who had entered a
caveat through their solicitor, praying that time-might
be allowed them to substantiate their claim.

** Other claimants ! " cried Abigel, pale and bewildered.
" What possible other claimants ? Sure never
was a case so simple or so clear ! If Mr. Attorney-general
would only cast his experienced eye "

'* Quite so, quite so ! " replied Sir Samuel, waving
his pen. The lady need not look so shocked. It
was a curious fact, that in most peerage cases the
advent of one claimant gave rise to a crop of others.
It seemed as if every one who chanced to bear the
same name was all at once convinced that he had
only to come forward to be received with acclamation,
whereas, in nine cases out of ten, his pretensions
turned out the merest soap-bubble, which vanished at
a breath.

"But what possible claimants?" persisted Miss
Kowe. " Did any one pretend to be Eoger or Hans ? "^
It was true, that she could not produce the certificate
of death of either of those parties, though one of the
witnesses could swear she had laid out Eoger, and
could point to his last resting-place. As to Hans, it

would be difficult, impossible, indeed; for be bad
fallen at Vinegar Hill in '98, and in that debate mau}^
bad been put down as missing whose bodies bad not
been identified. "Leo ! " sbe cried, with the decision
of a commander-in-cbicf ; ''^^ou must seek among
the records of sour father's regiment. Pray Heaven,
be was inscribed as dead ! "

Sir Samuel was mightily amused by the little
general and ber domineering ways, and the meek
submissiveness wherewith ber aides-de-camp obeyed
orders. Leo and Cy took up their bats, and prepared
to run off instanter, but were checked in mid-career
by another wave of the pen.

There was no reason," declared Sir Samuel,
"why the pretensions of the others should be kei^t
secret." Tbe person wbo prayed that be might be
called forthwith to the Upper House was a tailor in
Houndsditcb, whose brother was a fishmonger. They
declared themselves the legitimate grandchildren of
James Jarvis, wbo, in consequence of trouble connected
with a duel, enlisted in a marching regiment,
fought against the Scotch at Derby in 1745, and,
escaping with bis life (contrary to what bad been
reported), retired to obscurity in London, were be
married, and in due course died. Tbe prayer further
recited that the said James Jarvis was buried in a
certain city churchyard, a fact attested by a tombstone,
wbicb all wbo ran might read.

This was terrible. Archibald, last lord, had certainly
given out (as it was conjectured to stay pursuit) that
his brother had died at Derby, but, when he could no
longer be tried for murder, recanting after his demise,
had spoken the truth and put up the monument in
Stratton church. He had contradicted himself ; but
the motive was apparent. Which of his statements
was the correct one ? Did the fugitive, after the duel,
fly to Ireland ? or did he fight at Derby ? or did he
do neither? The tailor promised to show that he
fought at Derby; that brother Archibald, deeming
him a disgrace to the family, was glad to suppose
him dead; but that, his lack of interest seeming
heartless, he had put up a monument to clear his
character.

Perceiving Miss Kowe's perturbation, the Attorney-general
hinted gently that she need not be down-hearted
yet. The claimants would have to show that
their James Jarvis was the real Simon Pure. There
might be a dozen James Jarvis's, and only one James
Christopher; and unless it were clearly proven that
Archibald had put up his tablet malice prepense,
the probabilities were in favour of the inscription on
the Stratton stone being the correct one.

"Oh, Cy!" Abigel wailed; "if we only had that
letter which you surrendered to my lord ! " Whereupon
Mr. Smalley looked depressed and sheepish;
for these people, even though they ultimately failed

to make good their claim, might give rise to a peck
of worries and disastrous delays by manufacturing
the bogey of another fugitive.

'' I shall give them a month," declared Mr.
Attorney-general, 'rand then we'll see about it. If
their tale is as plausible as yours, the question must
be referred to a Committee of Privileges."

With this the trio, just now so jubilant, were forced
to be content ; and Leo went down to pay his
respects to the Princess by no means in gladsome
mood. A Committee of Privileges ! That might
mean endless annoyance and tantalization ; and Charlotte,
as she looked at his rueful visage, felt sorry for
her friend Abigel, and deferred what she had promised
herself to say to the would-be noble Earl.

In the midst of those hopes and fears. Lord
Osmington regained his spirits. Like a superannuated
warhorse, he swished his decrepit tail at the sound
of the clarion. It was as though the weariness of
Soul which he was inflicting on others was fresh lifeblood
to him. He rode in the park clad in a
prodigious stout, which would have caused poor
Brummel to shriek aloud, if that desolate wreck had
not been engrossed by this time by his own troubles
in his Calais garret ; and when asked where he had
picked up so terrifying a garment, replied jocundly
that it was built by a Houndsditch fellow who aspired
to the peerage. 'dash, dash!" he roared; "the

creature is worth cultivating, if only for his astounding
impudence. Think of an Earl wielding the goose
and stitching cross-legged on a counter. What a garment
? Indeed 'twas villainously cut, but interesting asa
curiosity." And by twisting the affair into a ridiculous
shape, the rival claimants became a standing
joke, and blue blooded dandies asked one another what
they should do when the coalheaver took the oaths.
"Was it a coalheaver, or a scavenger?" inquired
a languid beau. '' Gad ! But he'll have his mansion
in Grosvenor Square, with glasses of blue ruin on the
table, and Suke will bid us to her routs." Like the
wrestler who, when he touched Mother Earth, arose
refreshed, so did the enfeebled Vere grow strong
under his growing perplexities. His rattle was quite
amusing, and the Grand Signer declared to his
monitress that the old regime was twice as racy as
the new one. When he came and gasped like a fish
out of water in his Royal Master's favourite chair,
and sat for hours without speaking, Vere was, no
doubt, a nuisance; but when he arrived in the
extraordinary clothes manufactured by the Earl in
petty, and begged the Grand Signer to patronize the
snip who could trace back to the Plantagenetss, his
Royal Highness laughed ; and a laugh, when you are
painfully aware that you are getting old and have
pangs in your big toe, is a precious thing not to be
neglected.

*' It is curious," lie 'remarked one da', " that
YOU should have disliked that j-oung fellow from
the first. Of course I don't like him, for reasons
which 3'ou can guess. You wanted him banished to
the Indies, I remember, only my brother York would
not give you a commission for him. Was it instinct,
or second sight ? "

Perhaps I knew him to be the real man, and
wanted him out of the way?" gibed my lord; at
which the Regent frowned, for to suggest that one of
his own chosen friends could be capable of such
baseness was to make reflections on himself; and
vague suspicions which he had once entertained
had begun to crop up again. His Royal Highness
concluded, after deliberation, that Lord Osmington,.
if whimsical and racy b}^ fits and starts, was very
bad form, and agreed that his monitress was right.
in advising that he should be cut.

Among other festive and amusing pranks, my lord,
much as he objected to lawyers, bearded Sir Samuel
Shepherd in his den, and facetiously asked him what
he would take to quash the impending investigation
"Lawyers," he explained, "have such proverbially
short memories, that they cannot remember anything
without refreshes. If fees, constantly renewed,
produce such amazing effects on memory, why should
not the dose, judiciously applied, be productive of the
opposite results ? Legal minds being constituted

differently from those of other men, it might be . for
the good of science to try the experiment. Nobody
but a lawyer would dream of accepting a refresher.
Others would be ashamed to be paid twice over for
one job. What did Sir Samuel think ? " Sir Samuel
failed to perceive the point of his lordship's joke, but
had no doubt it was monstrous droll. He, Sir
Samuel, could tolerate a jest, even if it were a poor
one ; but it was well that those whom it concerned
should know that he would do his duty, and was
above bribes ; whereat my lord showed naive surprise,
Protesting that he meant nothing. Before he took
his leave, however, he scrutinized the maps upon the
walls, and hummed snatches of gay airs, and sucked
the crutch of his walking stick, and hung about as if
there was something within which declined to rise to
the surface. At last, just as he stood on the threshold,
he turned half round and said over his shoulder,
You've got to do with swindlers. Sir Samuel, though
I say it. I know 'em of old ; for they owe all to me,
and were thankless. As an Englishman, and entrenched
within my rights, I ask for a fair field and no
favour for myself. Only beware of swindlers, that's
all. I'll bet you now — but I suppose you don't bet —
that half their documents and things are forgeries,
and clumsy forgeries, too. Will you promise me this,
and it ain't much — dash, dash, if it is — to let me know
at once if you find they have forged their papers ? "

That was fair ; and the Attorney-general promised,
proceeding further to explain that in cases like the
present a minute and jealous look-out was kept for
the detection of forgeries. Not a paper-certificate
and so forth hut was placed under the microscope
and scrupulously examined before it was passed as
genuine. At this my lord seemed satisfied, and,
humming, strode away.

Sir Samuel sat pondering in his armchair, and
nibbled the end of his pen to quicken the action of
his mind. It was a queer business altogether.
There was this lord whom people wanted to oust.
He was a singular specimen of aristocratic breeding,
with his aspen hands and sunken cheeks, glazed
eyes and bitter reckless tongue. Was it in jest or
earnest that he spoke of quashing the affair ?
Pshaw. Even a dare-devil such as he would think
thrice before so insulting the Attorney-general. The
tailor and the fishmonger from Houndsditch, what of
them? They might be the true heirs, but dignities
would sit oddly on such common \Tilgar wretches.
That other fellow now, with his clear-cut features
and blue eyes — the ermine would become him well.
The enthusiastic young woman, too, was interesting.
'Twas a pleasure to watch her face like a landscape
flecked by clouds — now darkening now bursting into
sunshine. Staid lawyer though he was. Sir Samuel
caught himself hoping that the young man might

win the day, if only for the satisfaction of witnessing
the delight that would glow on that maiden's face.
And then he laughed softly to think that at his age,
buried to the eyes in mildewed lore, he should be
so romantic. Where was the batch of documents
which had been consigned to his care by Mr. Leoline
Jarvis, and the pedigree ? What did Lord Osmington
imply by his warning ? Swindlers ! Surely not ;
and yet his lordship distinctly stated that he knew
them to be dishonest. He would just take a glance
at the budget, and see what the papers were. Unlocking
a safe, the Attorney General drew forth the
packet which Leoline had left, and opened it. A
rubbing from a stone, some letters and certificates;
the latter pencilled on the margin to the effect that
witnesses would be forthcoming to prove from whence
they came. A diary — that was of no use. A letter
from James Jarvis, enumerating his children and
stating that he had settled in England. That might
be important. But how was this ? The paper was

right enough, but the writing on it Sir Samuel

looked serious, and adjusted his lou;pe. This was a
fictitious letter, written by a modern hand on a piece
of ancient paper. No doubt of it. Something crooked
was going on. Nothing could be clearer to an experienced
eye than that this document was a forgery.
The very first he had examined! If one, why not
others? Ah me, how we may be deceived by apparently

ingenuous enthusiasm ! It is a serious matter
^vlien claimants attempt to strengthen their position
by means of fictitious authorities. Possibly Lord
Osmington really did laaow the class of people with
whom he had to deal and suspected their tactics.
Sir Samuel had promised to inform him if he came
upon anything suspicious. He had not been long
about it, for a first cursory glance at the documents
had been sufficient to convince his experience that
all was not above board. A promise is [a promise,
and must needs be fulfilled. With a tinge of indignation
in that these young parties should have
so impudently attempted to hoodwink him with
patent falsehoods. Sir Samuel penned a note, stating
what had come under his notice, and despatched it
to Osmington House.

Who so jubilant as Vere, when he received the
precious missive ? He went about, showing it to all
his friends, and craving their advice as to how he
ought to treat the abominable impostors. The
Attorney-general, miracle of uprightness and acumen,
had cast his eagle eye upon their flimsy efforts and
detected a flaw at a glance. This written opinion
was enough to go upon. Should he take the bull
by the horns ? One set of sham candidates, his
friends would be pleased to observe, might be crushed
at a blow ; the others, if given time, would surely
betray their weakness. It was a conspiracy. Unless

something was done, the subject would be referred
to a Committee of Privileges in the House of Lords,
and that would mean expense and trouble in answering
foolish charges. "Would not his friends advise
him to pursue and crush the forger ? Detected at the
outset, he would confess and cry ^leccavi. Prompt
measures — swift vengeance — might frighten the other
parties, and then there would be an end of the
matter. If a young gentleman who had been privileged
to enter the household of a Princess of Wales
was snapped up at once and consigned to durance
vile, surely a Houndsditch tailor would pause and
think twice before unfolding his empty claim ? The
Princess Charlotte had been deluded enough to give
her countenance to the peccant youth who had been
her mother's page. That was sad, and it was a
matter of wonder that the wise Prince, her husband,
had allowed her to be so rash. All things considered,
he would drive to Brighton, lay the matter before
his Pioyal Master, and be guided by his opinion.
That was a crafty stroke of Vere's, who guessed that
the Regent was a little suspicious of his conduct;
for the Regent's jealousy of his daughter's independent
ways was only smouldering, and the fact
that she should openly countenance a follower of
the Dreadful Woman's looked as if she were preparing
to take up her absent mother's cudgels. When my
lord Osmington told his tale and artfully laying

stress on Charlotte's interest meekly craved advice,
his Koyal Highness was furious. Could not the
minx he content with her mawkish happiness ? Was
the delicious calm which reigned in the Pavilion to
be broken by her meddling ? It was most improper
of a Koyal Princess to espouse the cause of an adventurer,
the more so when she knew how the act
would vex papa. He sent an angry message to his
daughter, and another to her schoolmaster, and
advised my lord Osmington that if the fellow had
forged papers he would certainly prosecute him.

The moment chosen by Vere to show himself upon
the Steine was a fortunate one, if he desired to find
his master in ill-humour. His Pioyal Highness had
not recovered from a shock which he had received
a short while previously, and which had hit him very
hard. My lady Hertford, in her character of Maintenon,
had from time to time been eloquent on the
subject of his early male attachments, exhorting him
to affect an entourage suited to his years. George
was sadly conscious that it is the destiny of some
great ones to fall into a bad groove, and be surrounded
by persons whom the better class refuse to
know. It has often occurred that highly cultivated
men have shunned a Court, not from dislike of one
august personage, but by reason of the boon companions
on which it has pleased him to shine.
Coaxed by the Hertfordss, his Royal Highness en-vol.

111. 53

devoured to gather round him the noblest who were
available in the circle of art and letters. To gratify
Sir Walter Scott he got up little dinners, and the great
novelist vowed that a pleasant host he had never
met — one who was so courteous and so genial, so well
able to hold his own. in quip and crank and repartee.
Of pictorial and plastic art, there were just then few
worthy professors. The horrible daubs of a Fuseli ora
Hamilton, the feeble inanities of a West, thrill with
terror a more cultured generation ; but such masters
as existed were patronized by the Prince of Wales ;
and the public saw with pleasure that the latter days
of Carlton House were more decorous than the first.

This was well. But George clung to his youth,
and could not divest himself of a lurking fondness for
those who reminded him of boyhood. Which of us
but loves to recall the scapegrace times, when we
were merry and light-hearted, heedless of consequences,
with no thoughts of digestion or of a liver —
when aera cura was not constantly sitting on our
shoulders, whispering that all is vanity, and that this
life, if a farce to some,, is to a large majority extremely
disagreeable? We took pinchbeck for gold
then, without asking questions about the why and the
wherefore ; never troubling ourselves to inquire why
some, who are no worse than their neighbours, are so
consistently out of luck ; why the deserving perish of
starvation, while the unscrupulous loll in chariots.

We were desperately reckless in those young days —
risked our lives for a five shilling bet, grieved our
mammas and papas with nonchalance, and were disgracefully
jolly and happy. Tom, our pet comrade,
was an awful rake — did things at the remembrance
of which in the decorum of a later time we blush ;
but we love to summon visions of Tom, and look
tenderly on his escapades for all that ; for with him
in the jocund past we spent hours of such unalloyed
jollity as are denied to om square-toed present.

So it was with the Prince of Wales. When my
lady Hertford droned about the proprieties he acquiesced,
but his mind wandered to Fox and the
nights of gambling; and when she adjured him to
drink less curator, he dreamed of Sheridan and his
partiality for brandy. Poor Brinsley was often in his
master's thoughts ; and since that day at the Fives-comets,
when, with reeking breath, filthy linen, and
bloodshot eyes, he had plucked the royal sleeve and
begged a few pounds, it had become the duty of
Secretary Macmahon to see him from time to time.
There was little, however, that could be done for
Brinsley now.

Since then, when George supposed himself at lowest
ebb, Sheridan had sunk even deeper still. 'Twas a
pity he had refused the generous offer of a seat in
Parliament. Too old to adapt himself to neglect and
solitude ; tormented by constant clamour from which

there was no escape ; pursued by the relaxing severity
of the harpies of the law ; the great dramatist
and orator broke down. His mind began to wander.
In every approaching man he saw a bailiff — there
were enough about without conjuring visions; in
every scrap of paper a writ. The nightmare of his
existence became so dreadful, that death, however
lingering and fraught with pain, would be welcomed
as release. On week-days he lurked with shutters
closed within his darkened house in Seville Now,
creeping out o' Sundays to sit in a bar-parlour ;
rolling thence to lie in the kennel till devoted servants
fetched and carried him home to bed. Living almost
entirely on strong waters, the complication of his
numerous disorders multiplied rapidly, and he lost
the power of movement. Miseries thickened; nor
could the last corner where he laid him down to die
afford a safe asylum from the baying pack of hounds.
Writs and executions poured in, and bailiffs at last
gained access to his bed-chamber. One was for
dragging him away at once, as he was, in his blankets,
to a spunging-house ; and he would have been bundled
off but for the energetic interference of a Doctor Bain,
who warned the too zealous myrmidon that if the
master spirit abandoned its outraged tenement on the
road, the said officer would be charged with murder.
At this juncture, news of Sherry's plight reached two
of the old friends who, though they had not seen his



face for a year or so, yet remembered that he lived.
Lord Holland and Mr. Rogers instantly took steps to
free him from immediate embarrassment. They sent
to tell the Prince of Wales, who replied, through Mr.
Secretary, that two hundred pounds was at their
service, but that his old friend's difficulties were
omnivorous. And here the second wife stepped in, a
Miss Ogle, with whom Brinsley never could get on.
In sooth she must have had her share to endure, for
he was for ever prating of '' his first," who held his
heart to the end, just as his old love held George's.
But the second, nee Ogle, returned the two hundred
pounds, stating that 'there was a sufficiency of
means to provide all that was necessary for her
husband's comfort."

Richard Brinsley Sheridan was beyond human
succour. A dose of prussic acid, costing sixpence,
would have been more welcome than pros and cons
and squabbles with the second, nee Ogle. The genius
whom the unavailing tribute might have relieved was
losing consciousness of all but pain. Under what
unexpected shapes may Christ's Mercy lurk ! Would
you ask help from a tax-collector, crave leniency from
a bailiff? No; and yet the miracle was worked.
Tom Hurst, of Curator Street — let us immortalize his
name — in all the devil's-dance showed pity. Indeed,
he knew Sherry well. He had tapped the
genius on the shoulder times enough to wear a hole

in his coat. But the rough fellow had a heart, and
saw his way to playing the Samaritan, and at the
same time doing his duty. For old acquaintance'
sake, to give the stag at bay a chance of dying in
peace, though the hounds roared around in chorus,
Tom Hurst took possession of the moribund. First
in the field, the body was his. So long as he held it,
no other execution could take effect; so he established
himself at the beheld of the man who used to flee,
but who now clove to him.

Think of that house in Seville Eow which had
beheld such gatherings, such galaxies of intellectual
glitter, overrun now by bailiffs, one nook alone
respected through the sturdy protection of a merciful
sheriff's officer ! I vow it makes me shudder. A sale
with carpets out of window, a dispersion of penates
while hearts are breaking, is nothing to it ! Flippantly
I spoke early in these volumes of broken hearts, denying
with a cynicism worthy of Lord Osmington that
hearts could break. Fool ! fool ! A moment comes in
the lives of — let us hope — a minority, when they look
upon their years and wish they could double them. I
am forty, say, and people insult me with my middle
age. Forty ? would I were eighty, for by the established
rule I should then have been dead ten years —
have progressed onward on my chequered career towards
perfection, another painful step. If this state
of feeling — more common than could be wished — is

not nliin to the one which we associate with a broken
heart But hush ! Sherry lies dying.

Sheridan, raised by an altercation outside the door,
awoke. A smile spread over his face, which shone
with the aureate glimmer from another world.

You — Tom Hurst — you! " he said faintly. " Some
drink, please — quick ! You ! Doing here what ? Glad
it's you, for you know me well — very well, and can
trust me to go quietly — so quietly ! "

Can't get you any drink, sir," replied Tom Hurst,

'for if I left my post, others might Sir, your

wife has called. What shall I say ? "

Wife ? No wife — dead — died so long ago, so long
ago ; but wee shall soon meet now," whispered the
dying man.

Allays thinking of his first ! " muttered the kind
custodian. " The Bishop o' Lunnon's come, sir, to
read prayers. You'd like that ? "

But Sheridan was tossing on his mattress with
glittering eyes and thoughts away from the sordid
present.

** It burns, and so do I ! " he murmured, twisting
feverishly. " It burns, and all I have goes with it !
There goes Apollo ! What fireworks ! They'll travesty
'em at Vauxhall ! Take me. Hurst, for I shan't be
able to pay — ruined now utterly. Call a coach ! Not
too seedy a one, for I'll go — ready to go with you,
Tom, so quietly."

"Poor soul ! " blubbered the sheriff's officer, fairly
overcome. " You're going', sure enough, but not where
I can go with you — just at present. Let the Bishop
come in and do his palaver, for form's sake — Mr.
Sheridan's wandering. As for you, you vultures, you
may hover as you like ! " he cried roughly to the
crowd upon the landing. "I'm as strong as any of
you ; and till the poor fellow's soul's gone, I don't
budge — that's flat ! "

And, true to his word, the kind-hearted fellow sat on
in the sick chamber with arms crossed doggedly and
chin sunk on breast, all through the night and following
day, with shaggy-grizzled penthouse set into a
scowl, and lines about his mouth which showed that
he was firm. Protected thus, the flitting soul battled
with bruised wings against the wires — now fiercely
fluttering — now sinking down at the cage-bottom exhausted,
out of breath. In the middle of the second
night, just as the first chill of dawn was crawling
through a shutter-chink, the patient moved and murmured
—

No ; no more plays from me, Kemble. I'm dried
up — done. A drop of brandy, for the Lord's sake ! "

And so, in the arms of his strange but fitting nurse,
he sank, protected from other sharks, and appropriately
gave up the ghost. Even then he was not free.
People who had shunned the man hastened to offer
homage to the genius when the sinner was clay. It

was decreed that he should lie in state, and be accorded
a public funeral in the historic abbey of Westminster.
In the forenoon of the day fixed for the interment, a
gentleman dressed in sables entered the house, and
begged with a show of grief for a last look at his
departed friend. The earnestness of the stranger
softened the hearts of the watchers. The lid of the
conjoin was removed, the still face revealed to view.
The gentleman gazed for a few moments, and fumbling
in his pocket produced a wand of office, with which he
touched the forehead of the corpse, and declared to
the horror of lookers-on that it was arrested in the
King's name for a debt of £500. The funeral group
had assembled below; among the pall-bearers were
Ministers of State and Peers and Royal Dukes. What
was to be done ? Mr. Canning consulted with Lord
Sidmouth, and to limit the unseemly scandal, they
each gave a cheque for £250, and the sad cortege, with
its gorgeous panoply, went upon its way. How characteristic
was the end of Brinsley Sheridan ! Splendour
and squalid misery marching cheek by jowl
down to the last instant, when the slab closed over
him. A great man, too simple to profit by his greatness,
in whom genius was unaccompanied by judgment.
Byron said of him, that all he did was of the
best. From his brain emanated the best comedy —
The School for Scandal; the best burlesque — The Critic ;
the best address— jT/ie Monologue on Garrick ; and the

best parliamentary oration — The Begum Speech, In
society he shone superb until he grew maudlin drunk.
He was so genial that he could soften even an attorney.
In spite of endless lessons, he never lost his confidence
in the goodness of men. Though his works showed a
knowledge of human nature, it was confined to his pen
alone, for in all his acts he was the dupe of the designing
knave. At the age of sixty-five he died, and the
debts which had crushed him amounted, as it turned
out, to no more than four thousand pounds in trivial
sums. Like his comrade of younger days — the august
Signor — he was a muddle. George, when he heard
of his end, was more moved than he chose to show,
and locked himself up in his apartments for a week,
refusing to be comforted.

Chapter IX.

A FORLORN HOPE.

The strategic manoeuvres of Lord Osmington plunged
the camp of the enemy into confusion. The soaring
poet, who wished to rival Byron in his sunward
flight, was brought to earth by an unpleasant shot.
Seated one morning in a flowing dressing-gown, and
planning out an ode over a dish of chocolate, he found
himself arrested, accused of having deposited forgeries
with Mr. Attorney-general, of being at least
accessory to the forging of sundry documents for his
own behoof and advantage, knowing them to be forged.

He protested innocence, but forbore to say what he
might have said, namely, that the papers were
collected by somebody else, and that he knew little of
them.

Think of the violent emotions of Abigel ! The
tearing of crisp curls ! Think of the anguish of
Cyrus over so harrowing a spectacle ! The eyes of the
pugilist, usually so calm, flashed fire. My lord, like a
wicked mole, was burrowing underground, but when

he displayed his nose above the surface it would bethe
worse for him. Cyrus could tell a tale or two
about my lord, and would show him up as sure as
eggs were eggs ; but at the same time he wished that
Leo and his peerage were in heaven, a pair of troublesome
nuisances, for racking this tender bosom with
sorrow, wetting those sweet cheeks with saline rivulets.
Leoline never spoke a word of reproach to Abigel,
which served to increase her woe, though it was plain
that he thought his hot impulsive little paladin might
have been tempted in blind eagerness to manipulate
or adorn a page. "Whatever she had done was for his
sake, and loyalty bade him shield the rashness of the
too sanguine maiden. It was some time before she
could get access to him in his prison, for the Cerberus
muttered something about *' safe bind, safe find," and
suggested that ladies who hung about such asylums
as that over which he ruled might with advantage be
invited in to beat a little hemp. She besieged the
door of the Attorney-general, who fain would have
shut her out, the naughty forging hussy ; but she lay
in wait, and clung to him, and her grief was so
poignant and sincere that his heart was touched, and
he condescended to listen to her pleadings. There
was no shadow of doubt, he said, that one at least of
the documents was a forgery, and having assured
himself of that, he did not trouble himself about the
rest. " Which of the documents was it ? " the young

lady inquired; and being told, she remained speechless
for a while. That letter forged ! How blind not to
have suspected ; for that letter was the cause of uneasiness
owing to discrepancies. Some enemy must
have placed it in the lapis-lazuli cabinet as a snare.
It was never referred to in the diary, which should
have led to suspicion. Now she remembered that
Lord Osmington, when he warned her last time at
Battle Magna to mind her own business, had used the
apartment wherein the cabinet stood ; and she recalled
also her surprise at finding open that which she
was certain some time previously was locked. What
audacious crammers were these of hers ! Sir Samuel
Shepherd shook her coldly off. Such explanations
were bungling and stupid, and a young woman of
decent education ought to be ashamed of herself for
trying to conceal her own misdemeanours by accusing
others. Was he to believe that Lord Osmington forged
the letter and laid it in her way ? Disgraceful and
unseemly — most uncalled-for suggestion. Sir Samuel
must entreat the young woman not to force herself into
his presence, or make a hubbub on his staircase. Repulsed,
despairing, Miss Eowe opportunely bethought
herself that, after all, that particular letter might
be discarded without weakening the case. The only
important thing it showed was that the family had
removed from Ireland to England, a fact which would
be sufficiently established by showing that Roger

dwelt at Crows' Liberties. That he and the Eoger of
the monument were one was proven by the box emblazoned
with his arms, and by the seal which,
through his father Hans, had come down to Leoline.
It was quite immaterial to the case that Eoger should
or should not have had a brother and sisters. Would
Sir Samuel, then, put this hateful letter aside, and
consider the remainder as though it did not exist ?
The Attorney General was icily polite, and endeavoured
to escape. To have found a forgery at all among the
submitted documents prejudiced the case immensely
in his eyes. He could not conceal that from the
young lady. Perhaps it would be best to wait and
see what happened to the imprisoned candidate for
the coronet; meanwhile he had the honour to say
good afternoon, and beg the young lady clearly to
understand that he could not allow her to make his
life a burthen by pestering him with trumped-up
fables.

The Attorney General, who began by being kind,
had hardened into a flinty and frigid personage. No
sympathy or word of help was to be expected from
that quarter.

Leoline listened to her story, and believed it ;
but shook his head no less despondingly. " My
dear," he remarked, "it does not do for minnows
to fight with mammoths. My mammy's dying words
were true and wise. ' Before God you are the Earl ;

before man you'll never be ! ' Our foe is crafty and
rich, and has got us in a trap. How to get out of it,
I know not ; for though his ways are dissolute, his
social weight as a fine gentleman will stand him in
good stead with the great ones. We were ready to
use the paper. Who forged it, and how it got into
our possession there is nothing to show. Having me
here, he will work me some injury for my presumption.
I feel a presentiment of that, for are we not friendless ;
earthen pipkin, drifting on the stream ? We have
floated so far, but soon we shall be broken."

We are not friendless," cried Miss Kowe, in indignation
at such pusillanimous submission. " The
Princess Charlotte will not desert us. I ought to have
gone to her ere this."

Hot and wrathful Miss Eowe engaged a hackney
coach and rumbled down to Claremont. Was the
poet's resignation fine, or the reverse ? She could
not make up her mind as to this, for if we cannot
claw when others claw us, we are not fit to hold our
own on this sublunary sphere ; and valiant Miss Eowe
was herself one of the flowers. But that he should
take the direful results of a mistake upon himself
without a murmur, rather than that she should even
1)6 scolded, was fine, distinctly sublime ; and the tears
rose in the girl's eyes as, lying back in the coach, she
contemplated the situation. No doubt the iron pot
was crafty, and would smash the pipkin if he could.

What could he do ? There was no telling what he
might not do rather than be reduced to poverty —
what diabolical stratagems he might employ. But
she would lift up her voice and cry out, that if anybody
was to blame, it was herself; that Leoline kept
his lips closed out of chivalry ; that if anybody was to
be locked up, it was Miss Kowe, and not Mr. Jarvis.
Would people believe her tale ? The stony politeness
of Sir Samuel Shepherd spoke for itself. Others
would behave as he had done — withdrawing his silken
robe from contact with the young lady, who ought to
be in Bridewell, and who, out of mistaken indulgence,
was permitted to be at large.

A change, she found to her unspeakable sorrow,
had come over her friends at Claremont. Charlotte
was affectionate, but sad and subdued; Manfred
frowned gloomily, as if about to expostulate with the
Alps in ever so many hundred lines of versed rhapsody.
The angry missives of the Kegent had had
the desired effect, for Charlotte had wept copiously,
and Leopold had been indignant; for was not his
darling in the most interesting of situations, and was
it not necessary, above all things, to save her from
agitation? Cautious and careful as he was, it had
never entered into the head of the Corsair that interest
in a romantic case might be construed into a
declaration of war. No one objected to the Dreadful
Woman more than Leopold, for wherever she went

her baleful presence was sure to produce discord and
annoyance, and though she was reserved on the subject,
Charlotte had suffered more than enough at the
hands of her misguided mother. When mother and
daughter parted for the last time at Worthing, just
before the Princess of Wales turned her back on her
adopted country, the latter was so undisguisedly indifferent
that poor Charlotte received a stab in her
warm heart, and confessed reluctantly that it was
well for all parties that the baleful presence should
be removed. And to be harshly told now that she
wanted to renew those distracting past scenes ! It was
unkind and unjust. Was there to be no end to the
misunderstandings between herself and her papa ?
She would have been so f-f-fond of him, if he would
let her, but he saw all her acts through d-d-darkened
spectacles ; and with that the Princess buried her face
in the Corsair's waistcoat, as her new and engaging
habit was, and sobbed as if her heart would break.
Under these circumstances the advent of Miss Piowe,
with her eyes red from crying, was not a cause for
unalloyed delight. Leopold even muttered something
about intrusion, and was for sending hackney
coach and occupant to the deuce. But Charlotte
would not have it so ; she was vehemently resolved,
and ladies in her situation must not be contradicted.
She drew Abigel down on to the sofa by her side, and
hand clasped in hand the two charmers mingled their
VOL. III. 54

tears, and felt vastly better after it. Charlotte was
ready to believe anything to the detriment of my
lord Osmington, and knew Leo too well to suspect
him of mean arts ; but neither she nor Leopold were
prepared with practical advice. Was Abigel sure
there were no other forgeries ? Oh yes ! she would
stake her soul on it. Doubtless she would have said
the same a week ago, smiled Leopold ; to which the
maid replied more humbly than her wont, that the
case was so very clear as to require no forgery of
evidence. If that were really and truly so, pragmatically
declared the schoolmaster, the best thing
to do was to induce the Kegent to instruct his
Attorney General to proceed with the investigation,
putting aside the question of forgery till later. What
of the other claimants ? Strangely enough they
showed no hurry. Since the incarceration of their
rival they had taken no further steps, and the case
on their side, as well as the other, seemed like to
flicker out as an expiring candle doth. That certainly
was curious and unaccountable, and looked as if they
were personally inimical to Leoline, more anxious to
prevent him from inheriting than to win the prize
themselves. Decidedly the best thing was to get
the Regent to interfere ; but how was that to be
achieved? He was prejudiced against Leoline on
account of the Princess of Wales, and in favour of
Lord Osmington because he was his friend. It certainly

\Yoiild be very dirncult to induce him to move.
If the Princess Charlotte would employ her influence,
suggested Abigel, with renewed hope ! No, returned
the peremptory schoolmaster. No more crabbed missives
and untoward agitations. The Princess Charlotte
must hold aloof. Willing as he was to let her
have her way, he was her husband, and in this would
be obeyed.

Miss Eowe was exceedingly downcast. How easily
are pipkin broken by iron pots ! 'Twas hard to be
smitten hip and thigh on the very threshold of success,
and look which way she would she could detect
no way out of the maze. The starting of the claim had
been managed without trouble, save the payment of
sundry fees, for 'twas plain sailing and a mere formality.
Through my lord Sidmouth, Secretary of
State for the Home Department, a petition had been
Presented to the Prince Regent, praying him to call
Leoline Jervois to the Upper House ; and the matter
had been referred by his Koyal Highness to his faithful
Attorney-general, who was bidden to investigate
and draw up a report. Any one might go so far by
payment of sufficient guineas ; but then, what disaster
had followed. The faithful Attorney-general had
reported that the first claimant was not worthy of
credence, and so far as he was concerned there was an
end of the affair, unless his Pioyal Highness could be
graciously induced to command a further investigation

The melancholy visage of the Coral* was hard set.
He would listen to no idle pleadings. If his crew
mutinied, they would be put in irons. Charlotte,
though tearful and full of regret, showed no sign of
revolt. The valiant little paladin must seek help from
some other quarter. Mrs. Fitzherbert, who had been
so kind and warm-hearted ! — she was the one to ask.
Abigel blamed herself for forgetting the friend who
had promised to assist if ever she were in trouble.
And she was in grievous trouble now, though not on
her own account. Abigel bade farewell to the Princess,
who, pressing her in her arms, whispered that she
must not make a fool of herself with the head cousin,
but wait patiently for better times ; and returned to
town to acquaint Cyrus with this new defeat. Mr.
Smalley said nothing. His own prospects were clouding
over again, and he was torn by misgivings ; for
though he had not Mr. Kimpton's talent for seeing
through a brick wall, he could not disguise from himself
the fact that his fiancee displayed too poignant a
despair over the affairs of Leoline. Why ; if he,
Cyrus, had entered the lists with Jack Eandal, as the
amateurs clamoured that he should, and had been
unutterably punished and disgraced, his wife that waste
be could not betray more emotion. She was forever
harping upon the young poet's angelic conduct
in taking on himself undeserved blame, trickling with
an admiration that was bitterness to Mr. Smalley.

At this rate she would be falling in love with the
objectionable poet — straight off, in downright earnest
and there would be a kettle of fish. All the more
reason that this peerage must be won for Leoline, to
set him out of reach. Cyrus was more determined
than ever to succeed. Let the maiden, then, do her
best in her own way, but avoid more blundering. He
would work according to his own lights, and between
them it would be strange if they did not conquer yet.

Cy saw his cousin off by the Brighton coach,
wrapped a cloak about her feet, and solemnly adjured
the whip to be careful of the precious charge ; and as
she moved along the familiar road, each tree and
rm-al tavern whispered of the past that was so near
and yet so far. Sure 'twas a thousand years since, a
lady of the first fashion, she had been tooled down by
my lord and plucked cherries from that tree. There
was the Cock at Sutton, of which Jackson was no
longer landlord ; and there, not a day older, was Miss
Real, with her celebrated puddings, '' All hot, all hot,"
the brothers and sisters of the puddings at which she
had thought fit to jeer. Every thing and every person
was the same except herself. Not all; for my lord
was her friend and adopted father then, whereas now
he was her direst enemy. And was the change her
fault ? "Was she to blame in that things had turned
topsy-turvy ? If the clock could be reversed — if crabbed
old Time could be seized by the beard and flung back,

would she act differently ? No ; except in this. With
eyes opened now to dangers which then were hidden
from her innocence, she would not have accepted the
box-seat beside my lord, have worn his trinkets, or
the frocks of his buying. That was the only difference
she would make if events could occur again. Instead
of running off after the masquerade like a timid fawn,
she would never have ventured into the lion's den at
all, but have remained content with her lowly lot in
the banishment of distant Yorkshire. But what would
have been her future? What that of Leo and his
peerage then ? Alackaday ! At least, he would not
have been in duress now through her fault. But it
would not do to despond when she needed all her
energy and strength of hope. What if this journey
too proved vain ? That could not be, for kind Mrs.
Fitzherbert had promised help in time of need, and
was not one to promise lightly.

For all that. Miss Eowe was filled with trepidation
as she knocked at the well-known door upon the
Steine, and her ankles felt weak as the servant took up
her name. For she could see, as she tripped through
Castle Square, into the Pavilion Gardens — new and
stately private grounds, which once had been the
Grove ; and there in state under a spreading tree sat
the Prince Regent with my lord and my lady Hertford
a short distance off, Sir William Knightonon in attendance,
and fat Alvanley. The Grand Signer was expatiating

on a new invention — from his gestures this was
evident, for now and again he rose and strutted up and
doom to show the fall in his hack and the new garment
which was christened "trousers." This was odd and
tickle on his part, for though the said garment was ere
this the mode in France, his Royal Highness had
always set his face against it ; for, indeed, his lovely
leg looked letter in silk stockings. But anything fora
change, to beguile his thoughts from mobs and riots
and reviling and visions of the rampant woman, and
that last picture burnt into his heart of dying Sheridan.
He was quite engrossed by explanations of the
advantages of trousers as Abigel tripped by, and the
attendant gentlemen were swearing by all their gods
that they would be similarly clad on the morrow.

"Oh, if I could only speak with him ! " thought
Abigel. "He is in a good humour to-day, and did me
the honour once to think me worth his winning. The
Guelph, they say, never forget a face. Sure he'd
remember mine." The courageous girl hesitated a
moment, and had half a mind to penetrate into the
august presence and interrupt the sartorial dissertation,
but prudence gained the day. It would never do
to risk any more mistakes. If Mrs. Fitzherbert would
intervene, all would certainly come right.

That lady received Miss Eowe with a benignant
welcome, as if they had parted but yesterday. She
must sit down and take off her things, for Miss Seymour

was in the town shopping, and would be so glad to see
her. Miss Seymour was quite well, Heaven be
thanked ! grown pretty and charming ; at least all the
young men said so, who were the best judges. Her
guardian being prejudiced must refrain from offering
an opinion. What brought Miss Eowe to Brighton ?
Pity she had not sent up another name, for she
ought to be married ere this — not that she would
counsel precipitancy to young ladies. Miss Seymour
had had many offers, but her guardian had always
counselled prudence. " Wait, my love, until you
know your heart, and bestow it with deliberation on
one who will be full of thanks." And then the lady
with the perfect profile and the careworn expression
looked away out of the window, across the green, as
if she saw something there besides fishing nets and
idle strollers, and, sighing gently, inquired of her
visitor in what she could be of use. As Abigel told her
errand, a twitch of suffering crossed the patient face,
and with trembling fingers she laid her tambour down.
In sooth she had been making many false stitches.

"You don't know what you ask, my dear," she
whispered hurriedly. "For Miss Seymour's sake I have
gone out into the world again of late. I met him at
a ball at the Duke of Devonshire's, and he never spoke
to me'' A spasm rose in the throat of the poor lady,
which she had to gulp down before she could resume.
It was not his fault," she hastened to add. " For

we agreed that on many counts it would be best to
meet henceforth as strangers, and yet — and yet — it
was very hard to bear."

Mrs. Fitzherbert had risen, and leaned against the
window-shutter, looking out into the sunshine. Poor
lady ! How she must have suffered, and with what
angelic meekness did she endure her martyrdom !
King George had sown the wind, and had reaped the
whirlwind. The sins of the wretched man had been
visited with awful retribution; but the old Queen
remained unpunished for her share in the work, unless
a loveless old age can be looked upon as punishment
an old age enslaved by avarice.

Forgetting her own strait in the presence of dolour
borne with such noble dignity, Abigel followed the
elder lady to where she stood, and raised her hand to
her lips. '* Forgive me," she murmured, '' for adding
to your sorrow. Forgive, and think well of me.
Good-bye."

Ere Mrs. Fitzherbert had recovered her composure,
the girl had glided from the room, and was gone.
The little paladin at once made up her mind, and
skimming past the Castle Inn, marched boldly into the
grounds of the Pavilion. The Grand Signor was still
there, imbibing curacoa with his leg up, for showing
off the garment had brought on a twinge of gout,
and so much exertion called for light refreshment. He
did not look so good-humoured as when strutting up

and down; but Abigel had gone too far to recede.
She fearlessly approached the group ; while my lady
Hertford raised her eyebrows and stared at the newcomer.


I am Abigel Eowe," the maiden said. " Your
Royal Highness used to like me once — has danced
with me on this very green, when it was public ground'*

Dear heart ! Euphrosyne, who enslaved us all ! "
cried Alvanley. *' I thought you dead."

*' God bless my soul ! " ejaculated the Grand Signor.
Prettier than ever, I declare. Delighted to see you
again, my dear. Be seated, pray ! "

His Royal Highness was always, to the end of his
days, the humble servant of a pretty face ; and, seeing
encouragement in his cordial greeting, the young lady
without more ado told her story for the third time,
and so glibly that she had finished ere she could be
stopped. Not that any one attempted to interrupt the
tale. My lady Hertford looked up once or twice, and
nodded significantly, as if to say, " I told you so ! The
last of the flock is the blackest sheep of all ! " while
my lord Hertford ogled the narrator through his
quizzing glasses, and regretted that she should never
have been to supper at the retreat in Seashore Place.
By the time the tale was told, the good humour of the
Grand Signor had given place to settled peevishness.
Who would be a Prince of Wales to be teased and
annoyed and worried without an instant of peace ?

Every one from my lords Liverpool and Castlereagh
downwards continued to crumple his rose leaves.
Verily, when his royal parent, still a boy, shut
himself up in Buckingham House and watered ferns,
declining to see my lord Bute or any of his
ministers on the subject of Wilkes and '45, he
was in the right. A wall should be erected round
the Pavilion grounds, as wide and high as the one
of China, and sentinels be placed at the gates to keep
atm ciiva out. But then aera ciiva has wings and
seven-league boots and other adjuncts, which defy
walls and sentinels. Little girls have not, anyhow ;
the impudent vixens. The Regent prepared to give
the maid a bit of his mind ; but her heaving bosom
was so pretty under its muslin covering, the ruby lips
so eloquent, the sparkling eyes so imploring, that
being only a man, though an august one, his Royal
Highness refrained, and took some more liqueur.
Those suspicions which from time to time had fluttered
and turned over like an autumn leaf in a wanton breeze,
were caught now by the blast and buzzed round his
head. It was a relief to know that Charlotte disinterested
for Abigel's sake, not Leoline's or Caroline's,
and that he need not dread trouble from that quarter
with respect to the Ute noire. The conduct of Vere
towards the youth had been peculiar ; there was no
gainsaying it. The Regent had several times considered
it questionable ; but, jaundiced, as concerned

the boy, because he was the Dreadful Woman's protege,
he had considered the subject as Httle as possible. It
was humiliating and grievous to be convinced that
a chosen friend of youth should be bo wicked. The
last too. Yetthere were things which he had said and
done from time to time which bore witness against
him now. Why did he 'prentice the lad to a blacksmith
? Why did he wish to obtain for him a commission
in a West Indian regiment ? No doubt it
was by the advice of his royal master, too carelessly
given, that he had pursued the young man, and locked
him up. From her pursed lips and virtuous aspect it
was plain what my lady Hereford thought, and Sir
William Knightonon also, for that matter. Driven in a
corner by the eloquent appeal of the gipsy advocate,
his Royal Highness gave way and promised before
the assembled company that Sir Samuel Shepherd
should be commanded to take the all-important subject
up again, and sift it to the bottom.

Abigel could hardly believe her ears. After so
much disappointment, was it possible that her cause
was gained ? For gained it was she was certain if,
the odious letter set aside, the case were allowed to
proceed. Revulsion from anguish to hope made her
sick and faint. My lord Hertford rushed for a chair ;
my lady patted her on the cheek benignly, for she had
been countermining the influence of Lord Osmington
this long while, and was disposed to look kindly on

the knight-errant who helped to upset him from the
saddle. Where was the young lady staying ? What !
all by herself ! How very shocking ! Lord Hertford
proposed that my lady should put her up, for a night
at least. " She told a tale so well, that 'twould be
charming to hear more. Quite as well as 
in the * Arabian Nights.' What a ghostly
Place this Battle Magna must be from all accounts, for
possession of which there was so much heartburning !
Ah, the gardens ! He had heard they were mights-fine.
His Royal Highness had been there ? Indeed !
Had he been privileged to behold the witch who had
ridden on a broomstick ? No ! A pity, for such sights
were rare." So Abigel was made much of, and
rem-ned to town next day quite another girl.

CHAPTEK X.

COUNTERCHECK.

Cyrus saw his cousin off, and applied his mind to
thought. As things were, no one would put faith in
the story of Lord Osmington having laid a gin in a
lapis-lazuli cabinet to catch the feet of the unwary.
How to unmask him ? There lay the difficulty. The
burning of those letters, the full significance of which
was long in penetrating the skull of Mr. Smalley,
now shone forth in all its turpitude. But if he were
to go about telling this story, people would no more
believe it than the other. There was no one to speak
to the scene in the bedroom except himself, and it
was notorious that he, Cyrus, was a discarded
dependant of Osmington House. " No thoroughfare "
in that direction. The best thing to be done was to
go and consult with his trusty ally and adopted
father, Mr. Thomas Cribbb, whose advice, when induced
to speak, was generally worldly-wise. "It is
settled," still rang in the ears of poor Cy like a dirge
of death, strive as he would to banish from memory

the mournful cadence. Was the future he had planned
never to come to pass, after all ? Ah, well ! there
was nothing to be gained by soul-fretting on the
subject just now. It never should be said that he
had not done his very best to win his heart's desire.
He would go and take counsel of Mr. Cribbb as to the
unearthing of the wicked mole.

Thomas sat sucking his pipe in the cosy bar of the
Lion, his eyes turned from time to time admiringly
towards an emblazoned legend over the fireplace.

Beer in galore ;
After that more,"

ran the distich in Gothic letters ; and Mr. Cribbb, ashe
swayed it between puffs of the best Virginia, considered
it brief, poetic, and to the point. Thomas
was out of a job, and in the doldrums, and delighted to
embrace his boy. Truth to tell, time hung heavily on
his hands. The movement adverse to pugilism was
gaining ground, though the court of fond admirers
still hovered round the heroes, clapping them on the
back and drinking their health in bumpers. But
there were signs which might not be mistaken that
the halcyon time was on the wane. The royal
princes were no longer young enough to find pleasure
in sanded parlours and draughts of heavy wet. Certain
counties declared with emphasis that they would
have no more fighting within their borders. The
Fancy went furtively about their work, as if there was

something to be ashamed of; skulked down byways
instead of rattling openly along the high-road in
tiptop holiday gear. This depressing condition of
affairs, heart-breaking to one who viewed the] noble
art from its better aspect, was attributed by the
Champion of England to a decadence in the style of
boxing and undue patronage of the Hebrew school.
Eandal had done well so far as he went, and might
likely enough some day be worth looking at. But
how could he get on and shine when there was no
worthy antagonist against whom to pit him ? Tom
Spring, Cribbb's new pupil, was not doing badly ; but
somehow there was a screw loose somewhere, or, at
least, Cribbb chose to think so, being in a dejected
mood. He wist not that Eandal would ere long be
known to an admiring world under the flattering
sobriquet of "The Nonpareil." The Champion was
growing old, and was inclined, after the fashion of the
elderly, to look askance at the present, and compare
it unfavourably with the past. Men of his own
standing fell thick and fast around him, and he was
apt to sigh over his pipe and regret among other
disappointments the retirement of Cyrus. Cy did not
tell him that Abigel had withdrawn her objection to
his returning to his profession; for he was quite
resolved not to take advantage of her magnanimity.
What, then, was the use of courting argument on a
subject concerning which his resolution was fixed?

No. While she told her story at Brighton, he told
his in town ; and the worthy Thomas laid down his
favourite clay in mute astonishment at the singular
behaviour of Caleb.

*well, I never — no, I never did!" he repeated,
wagging his bullet head the while. " Whoever would
have supposed that such a lawless scum would have
had any good in him ? Well, there ! It shows 'that
the misguided, rowdy lad has his heart in the right
place, though buried, to be sure, under a heap of
rubbish. To think that he should be able to admire
his conqueror ! I'll never speak ill of a man anymore;
and am sorry now that I refused him your
address."

Refused him my address ? " echoed Cy.

Yes. He's in the Fleet, poor devil, and like to
stop there. I did not know he had a claim upon you,
so I would not say where you were to be found."

In the Fleet ! That should not be. I'll go and
see him at once," cried Cy, with generous alacrity.
Put on your hat and coat, we'll go together."

The Pink of Bow was in a dismal plight when the
two friends found him, and they sought long among a
labyrinth of dirty rooms and foul passages, which
from year to year were never swept, ere they came
upon their quest. Cy looked serious, and Cribbb felt
unwell ; for 'twas terrible to see fellow-sinners reduced
to the condition of the lowest beasts, perishing by

VOL. HI. 55

inches, some of hideous disease, some from vulgar
want. Could any one say where was the Pink of Bow,
erst a well-known prize-fighter ? Some glanced listlessly
on the strangers, as though the outer world was
cut off from them for ever ; others stared wolfishly
with an eye to garnish ; a few retained a phantom
scrap of humour yet, despite their weight of care.

If he's a prisoner, guess he's somewhere about,"
giggled one, with an arch wink. '* 'Tain't likely he's
strolling in the park ! "

Will you give me two bob to find him, guv'ors ? "
asked a second.

'rand a pint of daffy in," suggested a third, who
did not wish that the market should be spoiled ; " and
a go of lightning ? "

*'A prize-fighter?" said a fourth, reflectively.
There's such a power of brawling in our yards that
it's hard to tell the professional from the amateur."

I know ! He's where you'll never look for him,"
a tiny wizened man piped shrilly, holding his rags
together with his grimy claws, lest haply they should
leave him naked. " I'll pint 'im out for a bender.
That's cheap enough."

Cribbb in disgust tossed a shilling to the tattered
wight, who gabbled and clutched it like a monkey,
and ambled rapidly down the stairs, less the spoil
should be wrested from his fevered grip by some
pouncing bird of prey.

''He's on booty; that's where he is," whispered
the tiny prisoner. " If you go into the street, you'll
find him in the cage ; or the turnkey '11 pull 'im outby
the scruff of the neck, if you make it worth his
while."

In the cage ? " asked Cyrus.

Unfortunate wretch ! " groaned Cribbb. "I know
what he means. I've seen 'em. Just think of coming
"down to be treated like a poll parrot ! "

In the old days of that horrible plague-spot, now
happily cauterized away, there was a recess in the
outer wall of the Fleet prison, closed by heavy iron
bars, like the lion's den in a menagerie, within which
the abject, ragged creatures on the poor side took
their turns to sit for a given number of hours, rattling
•a money-box, and beseeching the passers-by to " remember
the poor debtors ! " People were compassionate,
and generally gave a trifle; for it was
wel-known that some had nothing else to live on but
this precarious relief, though perchance 'twould have
been kinder to let them starve at once rather than
prolong their wretchedness. True enough, there was
the Pink of Bow, once so smart and trim, given to
slap-up togs and forty kicksies. His cheeks were
gaunt and hollow, his chin unshorn, his hair hanging
in elf-locks. Famine had done its work upon his
-splendid muscles. There would be no difficulty in
beating him now !

Eemember the pore debtors ! Eemember the pore
debtors ! " he whined piteously, with his eyes closed;
but opened them wide, with a start and shiver, as
Cyrus ejaculated " Caleb ! "

Poor fellow ! I'm so sorry ; never knew of this
till half an hour since," he explained. "There's
money of yours held in trust, you know; for the
monument was found, just as you said."

Caleb's worn features worked, and he passed a sooty
hand over his grimy face. " Glad to see you at last,"
he grunted, all the swagger gone. "I wouldn't have
the reward, for it was a pleasure to give you the
information ; but times are changed, you see, and
beggars can't be choosers. If you'll go into the yard
I'll get somebody else to take this infernal duty."

The Pink of Bow was a melancholy object when he
showed himself under the square of daylight within
the four high walls. His dandy coat and vest had
been parted with on entering to supply the necessary
garnish, or toll of drink, claimed by his future
associates. In frequent fights his shirt had been torn
in strips, and to replace it he had got a frowsy sack,
which was tied with string about his neck. But
others were as badly off, or worse, than he ; for the
tattered blanket, which was the only safeguard
against the cold at night, was obliged in many cases
to serve as morning attire as well, worn in the
manner of a poncho. In squalid groups the gaol-birds

sprawled in the sun, close together, for mutual
warmth ; such as could achieve so rare a luxury
smoking tobacco ; those who could not, sniffing the
fragrant fumes, or sleeping the time away. But the
presence of two well-dressed men parading up and
down the yard created a diversion, and roused the
sleepiest from dreams. Experienced eyes appraised
the white bell-hat of Mr. Cribbb, his leather breeches,
and neat top) boots, and gazed with hungry envy at
the handsome bunch of seals that dangled from his
fob. The swells had come to claim a prisoner, to pay
his debts, and set him free. " Hooray ! Three cheers
for the jolly gentlemen ; " for by immemorial custom a
departing prisoner was obliged to stand drinks all
round. But they were disappointed in their hopes, for
the present at least ; for Cyrus expounded to Caleb,
who sighed fretfully, that Madam Ambrosia Cotton
was no longer in England, and that the reward could
not be got at without delays and formalities.

How much are you in for ? If it is small, it
might be managed," inquired Cribbb.

A hundred and fifty pounds," groaned Caleb.
*rand if that were paid. Lord Osmington would be
down on me for his paltry debt-Oh, ain't he wicked
and spiteful ? ain't he just ? " This remark of Ann's
was spoken with a deep conviction, in which was a
flavour of admiration. To be ordinarily peccant is
commonplace; to be complete, in whatever way.

deserves its appreciative tribute ; and the wretched
Pink, though himself the victim, could not withhold
his meed of respect for the way in which my lord had
kept his promise of crushing him like a beetle. " For
fear of him," he observed, "there ain't a blessed palas
-would give me a mag, or a drop of water for my
tongue if I was in torment. And what did I do to
bring on me his vengeance ? I didn't sell the fight ;
all agreed that I fought as well as you. Both can't
win, that's certain. Oh, he is wicked and spiteful ; if
he's not, I'm blowed ! " All things considered, Cy
was not likely to disagree with this sentiment, and
Caleb displayed a curiosity to know what evil the
brilliant sinner had worked on his antagonist. "You
ain't starved like me," he said, " nor yet in rags-sure
you've escaped his fangs ? "

Whereupon Cyrus told him of the imprisonment of
Leoline, and the collapse of his lofty pretensions.
In the midst of the relation Caleb stopped in his
walk, and, with a long low whistle, slapped his thigh.

"He's splendid — magnificent!" the bruiser exclaimed;
"butJI'U be even with him! 'Tis plain
enough why he buried me alive. 'Twas less trouble
than purchasing my silence. Why, those Houndsditch
chaps are a blind — men of straw to frighten blackbirds
! It was I who told him of them and of the
tomb in the city churchyard."

Here was intelligence indeed ! If it could be shown

that my lord had got up a bogus counter-claim to
throw dust in the eyes of the Attorney General, and
by complications cause postponement, it would go far
to break down his credit, and induce the public to
believe that so noble a personage could condescend to
the laying of gins.

As for Cribbb, he was dismayed. Like most of his
craft, he adored the aristocracy, for to the highest in
the land he had never looked in vain for patronage of
his cherished art. If this were true, my lord was no
more than a common scoundrel, whose proper dwelling-place
was Botany Bay, his fitting home the hulks.
Complete forsooth ! Mr. Cribbb being an honest man,
simple-minded and confiding withal, saw nothing to
admire in a noble lord who could practise the arts of
the felon. "And he tlTe President of the Pugilistic
Club ! " the Champion groaned in tribulation. Had
he not been right in deciding that things were going
to the dogs ? The enemies of the noble art would say
that the contaminating society of boxers had warped
his moral sense. It was another blow at the Fancy.
Preachers would prate and moralists would jabber,
and many would really be convinced by their windy
platitudes. It was a good thing that Jem Beecher had
not survived to see this day. Would that he, the
Champion, were equally at rest ; for 'tis saddening as
you go down the shady side of the hill to see your
temples totter, the gods of your veneration prone

before their altars ! The grief of the good man was
Dutch to the Pink of Bow. He looked on the noble
amateurs as so many money-bags, to be squeezed by
any device. So he turned to the Sprig as the more
practical person of the twain, and said, "Come, a
bargain's a bargain. Get me out of this hell, and
bring me face to face with the men of straw, and
you'll see that they'll shrivel away like so much
scorched grass."

"We've money in hand, thanks to the Princess
Charlotte," cried Cy with glee ; for abbacy he saw the
bugbear Leoline freed from duress, established in his
earldom, swept out of his path ; the tender bosom no
longer racked and harrowed ; the little brown left
hand with a golden hoop of his placing on the third
finger. *' To-morrow, or next day, you'll be free, and
can ruffle it once more in the most expensive
kicksies."

Cy was for running off that minute to see to the
liberation of the prisoner ; but Mr. Cribbb, the wise
counsellor, having got over the first throes of his
chagrin, bade him bide awhile and adopt a more
prudent course.

If the man's such a scamp," he said, " we must
fight him with his own weapons. If the Pink were set
free, with money in his pocket, he could not resist the
old temptations. We should have him making an
exhibition of himself in Bond Street, running amuck

which would land him as usual in the dock. My lord
would hear of it before the day was out ; would know
that a man whom he had maltreated and made his
enemy was unchained ; and would take steps to tie
him up again. If the Pink is to be of use to us," concluded
the Champion, *' my lord must not learn that
he has friends — must be left in the belief that his
sham claimants are secure from showing up."

"Do you mean to say I'm to be left here?"
demanded Caleb, scowling. '' A nice sort of friend,
you are, Mr. Cribbb, who refused me the Sprig's
address, and now ■ "

Silence ! " retorted the Champion, sternly.
You've got to show that you are to be trusted. If I
am suspicious, whom have you to thank but yom-self ?
We'll get a day rule for you tomorrow ; you shall go
with us to Houndsditch, and interview these blackguards
; and we'll see if you speak truth. At nightfall
you shall return here as the custom is, and my
lord will know nothing about it."

Caleb was restive for awhile. He would not stop
here to be made a fool of, not he ; a tool to be used
and thrown aside. He might be rowdy, and given to
escapades, but was capable of control in an emergency
would perform miracles towering about the downfall
of my lord, who had behaved so abominably ill to
him. Would the Champion give a fair trial to see if
he could not be trusted to behave himself ? To all of

which Mr. Cribbb responded firmly that he would give-him
a trial, but must keep him muzzled for all that,
seeing the dangers which might accrue from a false
step. If Caleb could control himself, he must show it
now. For his own sake the effort must be made ; for
if my lord were undone, he, Kann, could resume the
practice of his profession without fear of further
persecution.

And so it was arranged. A decent suit of clothes-was
sent to the charge of the head turnkey, wha
undertook to have his man dressed and washed and
shaved in his own sanctum, away from the other
prisoners — fit to reappear in the world ; and to give
him his rags again when he returned. And at precisely
ten the following morning the Champion and his-boy
met the refurbished bruiser at the gate, and the
three strolled gently eastwards.

*' Who are these people ? " inquired Cy. '' What da
you know about 'em ? "

*' Never you mind," chuckled the other. *' Wait a
bit. I know summit as '11 squash 'em both when the
time arrives, as my lord tried to squash me."

The tailor's affairs seemed vastly to have improved
of late. An inscription had been added beneath the
picture on the swinging sign to the effect that the
owner of the establishment was patronized by
the nobility. The master snip no longer sat cross-legged
on his counter, spectacles on nose ; but commanded

a brigade of young ones, who looked on their
chief with awe. When the trio entered his shop, he
passed his ringed fingers through his hair and smirked ^
as much as to say, " See, I have told no Hes. The
gentry from the West are weary of Stultz and such
bunglers, and must even come to me." Would the
gentlemen please be seated ? Those leather breeches
were terribly modish — queer relics of Beau Brummell's
day, who had been dead a thousand sears. The
real thing now was something loose and careless.
His Royal Highness the Prince Piegent had set the
fashion ; and who should know how a nob should be
attired if not the first gentleman in Europe ?

"For the moment, the newcomers did not need
clothes," Mr. Piano replied, " though they would look
at patterns with an eye to a future day, while Mr.
Jarvis sent for his brother, who lived somewhere close
at hand."

The tailor seemed taken aback. What did they
want with his brother? "He dvi^lt just there, a few
doors off ; perhaps they would deign to step over tO'
him ? "

Certainly they would," declared the accommodating
Piano, " if Mr. Jarvis, the tailor, would kindly
show the way."

The tailor looked suspicious. These, he saw, were
not members of the nobility, though, now that
Brummel was gone, it was as difficult as ever to tell

a lord from his groom. Two of the trio were over-healthy
for nobles, pink and white, with immense
breadth of beam and ponderous shoulders ; the third
appeared delicate, but 'twas a low-bred face — not
aristocratic. Could they be robin redbreasts in disguise
? To think that in the bosom of Mr. Jarvis, the
tailor, there should lurk a fear of Bow Street runners !
He put on his hat without remark, and, bidding his
serfs be diligent, crossed the road to the fishmonger's.
The latter was not so superior a creature as his
brother — had not bloomed forth into boasts of
patronage. It would have caused remark if he had
chosen to state that Dukes and Duchesses sent to
Houndsditch for their fish. He was the younger, and
would not share the mantle ; hence, perchance, his
humility. The trio had discovered, by stopping for
refreshment at a neighbouring tavern, that no word
had been breathed in this quarter about any pretensions
to a peerage. This, perhaps, may account for
the fact that the fishmonger turned white, and that
his lip trembled, when Mr. Ann, without beating
about the bush, congratulated the pair on their chance
of achieving greatness. He knew not what to answer,
and glanced uneasily from under lowered lids at the
placid gentleman with rings. Mr. Jarvis, the snip,
during the short transit from one house to another,
had had time to collect his thoughts. He had wished
to conceal his pretensions for the present from

cackling neighbours, but it vas in the course of things
that the story should leak out. So he replied with
complete calm, and a slight drawl, that he was obliged
for the gentleman's congratulations. Did he also
belong to the Upper 'Ouse ? 'Twould be nice to meet
there and chat.

It's a rum story, ain't it ? '* Caleb said reflectively.
''To think that the fugitive feller should escape from
the wars and settle in these parts. What might have
been his style of business ? Did he turn tailor in his
old age, or fishmonger ? Which of the two dwellings
was his? In truth, they were both ramshackly
enough to have belonged to Jerusalem himself.
And what, by the way, was the date of the flat tombstone
at St. Botolph's ? "

Who are you, and what do you know of us ? " the
fishmonger asked nervously.

Knew this part of town pretty well once," Mr.
Ann remarked ; " also the flat tombstone ; remembered
seeing lads play marbles on it many a
time in younger days."

Our ancestor, James Jarvis's tomb," replied the
tailor stiffly, " dates from 1749; so that, having fought
at Derby in 1745, he was not long spared."

Pity," nodded Caleb pleasantly. "What lies folks
tell ! The woman who shook the cushions at St.
Botolph's used to lecture the boys as they played her
tricks about the doors, and point to that gent's tomb asa

lesson. For, she said, he was like Mr. Hogarth's good
'prentice : came to town without a penny to bless
himself withal, and married his master's daughter.
Not true, of course ? "

Certainly not true," the tailor drawled, with well-hired
languor ; while his less accomplished brother sat
down in the obscurity at the back of the shop, and
locked his fingers nervously. " Whoever you may be,
sir, you are not my father confessor. What is it you
want — out with it ? "

Merely came to warn you in a friendly sort of
way that you'll lose your case, as sure as eggs is
eggs. Come now, don't your consciences tell you
that you must lose ? "

The fishmonger glanced up, and was about to say
something, when his brother interrupted quickly.
*' Hold your tongue ! " he snapped. *' If you are only
here, gents, to waste our time," he said, "the sooner
you be off the better. A caveat has been entered by
my solicitor to bar the idle claim of some ill-conditioned
person."

"All right!" returned Caleb. "Do as you like.
I've warned you ; " and with that he strutted away,
followed by Tom and Cyrus, both of whom were
mystified.

What's your game ? " asked the latter presently.

"To frighten 'em," Caleb replied, looking at the
Champion, in hopes of a commending word. " They'll

guess that if I know that much, I'm likely to know
more, and will back out, leaving my lord in the lurch.
That's the game."

Thomas withered the Pink of Bow with a glance of
extreme contempt. 'pah!" he said. "Ass that I
was to trust you. They'll put my lord on his guard,
sand all the fat'll be in the fire ! What is this precious
affair that you're keeping darksome nursery fable,
I warrant ? "

Caleb was deeply hurt, and answered sulkily, *' Not
so silly as I look. Free me from debt, and get me out
of quod, and I'll speak up when the time comes. If
you don't, I'm mum. Sorry, old pal," he added,
turning to Cyrus. " Sorry to have to make terms.
Trust me, and I'U keep the gag on, help me, till
you take it off yourself, and serve you proper. Your
Mr. Cribbb is trying to get on the blind side."

Mr. Cribbb, indeed, was loth to put faith in the Pink,
wherein he erred on the side of caution. Could he
have looked in then on the fishmonger, after the departure
of the trio, he would have beheld that worthy in a
condition of extreme alarm.

After contemplating his agony for a while, the tailor
said, " Since you are such a puling ninny, you'll have
to disappear. They don't know anything, I tell you ;
came sniffing about in hopes of om betraying ourselves.
Anyway, I'll go up to my lord tomorrow and
report."

I would to Heaven we'd left it alone. We shall
get into trouble ; mark me ! "

*' Fool ! " sneered the snip, who thoughtfully
returned to his own establishment, to overlook the
proceedings of his serfs.

Chapter XI.

CY RISKS HIS BONES.

Mr. Smalley spent the evening with the Champion,
and argued the question with him. Caleb was a
queer customer, a very queer customer, who required
to be treated gingerly. If it was he who had first
directed the attention of my lord to these Houndsditch
people, and if he declared himself possessed of knowledge
concerning them, such as would make them
harmless, surely there was only one thing to do — to
trust him? As for the amount of debt, he, Cyrus,
had money left out of the sum won by his celebrated
victory, and it could not be better spent than in
securing the translation of bugbear Leoline to exalted
spheres. The next morning, therefore, saw Caleb
released and full of gratitude to his conqueror. There
was nothing he would not do for him. He would
obey Cy's orders implicitly. It was settled accordingly
that the Pink should for the present lie concealed
under the care of Gentleman Jackson, who undertook
to manage the unruly ruffian and produce him
whenever necessary.

VOL. III. 56

So when Abigel returned from the queen of ,
and poured forth for the delectation of her
cousin the successful result of her massage, he was
able to add to the good news, and show that he had
not been idle. *^ Oh, was it not too delicious ? " she
cried, quite her glad self again. " It was worth while
to encounter obstacles for the pleasure of seeing them
dissolve." She flew to Leoline; bade him be of good
cheer, since all was coming right ; promised that his
foe should be unmasked immediately. He hoped it
might be so, sighed Leo, who, absorbed in sketching
out a poem in five cantos, was quite calm and composed.
The quiet of his prison (there were none to
offer bail) seemed to act soothingly upon his nerves,
and Abby was satisfactorily convinced that there was
a spice of the heroic in her friend's unworldliness.
But she wished he would look less ardently into the
depths of her dark eyes, for, despite herself, the telltale
blood would rise to her cheek and tingle there.

When, full of the Regent's promise, she presented
herself at Sergeants' Inn, she found Sir Samuel Shepherd
more icily polite than ever. He had received
instructions to proceed with the investigation of the
claim, he acknowledged readily enough, and would do
so at his leisure ; but the young lady must be aware
that there was a caveat, and that he must wait, before
proceeding, until the other claimants were ready.
Pair play was a jewel, and it should never be said

that in his quality of inquisitor be leaned to one side
or the other. " There aren't any other claimants,"
cried the damsel, who proceeded volubly to declare
that the Houndsditch people were rank impostors, who
could be shown up, and that Sir Samuel would do
well to wash his hands of them at once. The Attorney-general
grew stiffer and more icy. A backbiting as
well as a forging damsel ! Never would the astute
forensic dignitary trust himself again as a judge of
character; for candour shone out of her face, while
her tongue all the while was forming the most objectionable
fibs. Always harping, too, on the same
foolish string. Was it probable that a nobleman,
friend of the Prince Kegent, should stoop ? etc., etc.
Sir Samuel would obey his royal master's behest ; but
time, dear madam, must be allowed, for the car of
justice is a ponderous vehicle which cannot be driven
at a trot. Cruel, cruel lawyer, to turn the deaf ear
of the adder to lovely and impatient woman ! Would
he not name a day very soon for the sifting of the
contradictory evidence — fix a positive date for the
breaking of this suspense ?

There was no objection to fixing a date, no objection
whatever. Say that day fortnight. The solicitor for
the other side should be warned to appear with
evidence and witnesses, and the vexed question could
be set at rest before the Long Vacation. With that
Miss Rowe was forced to be content. Fourteen days

would soon pass. She forwarded instructions to Mr.
Kimpton, in order that, fully primed, the batteries
might open with a brilliant discharge of artillery,,
and send the foe scuttling off after the first fire.

At last the long-wished-for morning arrived, and
the waiting-room was filled with a noisy throng of
country folk clad in Sunday gear. The commander-in-chief
wore a new gauze hat and amber feather
and the sweetest lutestring frock and sandalled shoon.
Her eyes were beaming with the certainty of triumph.
Cyrus also seemed full of hope, quietly confident and
happy. Betty Higgs from the almshouse was in an
ecstasy of admiration, so was her decrepit spouse
from the male side ; for never in all their long lives
before had they travelled more than twenty miles
from Stratton, and it was a marvellous thing that in
extreme old age their old bones should be rattled in
the flying stage over the immense expanse of road
which lay between London and York. How Betty
would crow over Sally Scraggs when she got back to
the almshouse ! What experiences of travel she would
relate to an awestricken circle, and how utterly
Madam Scraggs would be discomfited ! No more
ignominious troubling With the mop endured with
Christian fortitude. She would take her position in
the small world of Stratton as a great explorer, who
had successfully faced untold dangers by flood and field,
and would be treated with proportionate respect. And

Avhat capital in the matter of loaves and fishes she
would make of the hair-breadth 'scapes of the journey,
impressing on the new lord that when the wheel came
off at Peterborough she nearly broke her precious
neck; but that, knowing the extreme value of her
evidence, she had, solely on his account, clung like
a cat to the roof by teeth and talons, and so escaped
the peril ! On second thoughts she would not return
to the almshouse, except for a few days wherein to
triumph over Sally Scraggs, moving then with her
equally decrepit husband into some cosy cottage,
whose cupboard should always be provided with tea
and snuff and strong waters, replenished by invisible
agency like the legendary widow's cruise. It was to
be deplored that the turn of good fortune should come
so late in life ; but, pampered and coddled as she
resolved to be, existence would be indefinitely prolonged.
Having thus settled the future to her own
satisfaction, Betty Higgswas burning to give evidence
and have done with it, in order that she might enter
on millennium with the least possible delay. How
much longer were they to sit in this waiting-room ?
The hours were flying. Though Betty had done
justice to breakfast, she began to feel peckish. Her
experienced spouse was provided with a convenient
bottle, from which the couple from time to time sought
sustenance. Sir Samuel had named ten o'clock, and
it was now one. Abigel, growing anxious, began to

suspect new complications. Her phalanx of witnesses
was there — the parson of the parish where Hans and
Naomi had been united, with his book; the housekeeper
from Crows' Liberties ; even the silent witness
in its box, which had opened the lips of Pentecost.
But where was the opposition ? A solicitor was in
waiting to watch the case for Lord Osmington, and
Mr. Townshend, Windsor Herald from the College of
Arms ; but the tailor and the fishmonger were conspicuous
by their absence. They had not even sent
an attorney. Two o'clock struck, and three, and four.
Betty Higgs collapsed from hunger, and, drivelling ina
corner, wished she had stopped at home. The
worthy blacksmith glanced at Miss Kowe for encouragement,
but met with no response. It took all
her energy to mask her own agitation. At last a
hovering clerk put his head out from an inner room,,
and, with exasperating want of interest, commanded
the company to disperse, as the investigation was.
postponed.

Postponed ! Why ? What had happened now ?'
All the good folks present had made a tedious and
expensive journey. Surely Sir Samuel would not be
so fiendish as to send them home without a hearing ?
Where was the Attorney-general ? Sure he had not
beaten a retreat by a back-door ? Miss Eowe insisted
upon seeing Sir Samuel. The Prince Piegent should
be informed straightway of his gross lack of courtesy.

whereby' he had flown in the face of that magnifico.
Such treatment was outrageous, shameful ! Indignation
added a full inch to the height of Abigel, and Sir
Samuel, arriving on the scene by reason of the uproar,
was struck with her resolute courage. It was a pity
should tell fibs and forge documents ; yet, despite
these peccadilloes, there was something admirable in
her obstinacy, in the unscrupulous neck-frothing
way in which she fought her battle. He was seriously
hurt and annoyed, he explained with diminished
iciness, at the behaviour of the opposition. Setting
aside all other business, he had waited the entire day,
and they never showed a sign of existence. It was
unprofessional on the part of their solicitor. He
should either have made good the entering of his
caveat or have withdrawn it. For so flagrant a piece
of impertinence he ought to be struck off the Rolls.
Then surely," suggested Miss Rowe timidly, " the
case can go on without them?" The conduct of these
mysterious persons was merely vexatious, as she had
already had the honour of saying, and it was unfair
that others should suffer by reason of their insolence.
No," responded Sir Samuel. " They might " — he
hoped they might — '*be able to give a satisfactory
explanation. Tiles fall on people's heads sometimes
and interfere with appointments ; they slip up and
break their legs inopportunely. The investigation
must be deferred again. They must have a fair

chance of hearing. It was unfortunate that the Long
Vacation should be so close at hand." Involved as he
vas in clouds of business, Sir Samuel regretted that
it would be impossible to proceed until after the usual
holiday. This much would be gained by the delay —
the opposition would be unable with decency to
demand more time, and would either come forward
out of the shadow and make good their claim, or
show that they were windbags.

After the Long Vacation! Miss Eowe was in
despair. Would not Sir Samuel at least take the
evidence of these poor folk now that they were all
assembled, and reserve his judgment? Here was
a parson who wanted to return to his flock ; a parcel
of aged men and women who could not, like wandering
Jews, be always on the move. It was hard on
the claimant that he should have to keep them so
long in London at his own expense. The Attorney-general,
with infinite regret, declared that it was
impossible. After the Long Vacation the matter
should be gone into, then and not before.

Accidents cause us to make strange friendships, bring
incongruous elements into whimsical juxtaposition.
In the old days of Almack's, Abigel would have laughed
had she been told that she would form one of a committee
of which the other members should be pugilists.
Yet so it came to pass ; for she sat in solemn conclave
with closed doors in the company of Gentleman Jackson,

Cribbb, Cy, and Caleb, to consider the new trouble
in all its bearings, and avert the possibility of more.
*' You are a dear and faithful sturdy staff whereon
to lean," she said fondly to her cousin; "please
Heaven that I may make up for your devotion. Am
I not preparing, sir, to assume my destined place ?
Papa Cribbb treats me like a daughter ; a man worthy
of all respect, now that I know him better ; and your
Gentleman Jackson is estimable, and sufficiently
genteel, if blunt. Indeed, I ought to be grateful, for
I am touched by their gentle kindness." Poor Cy!
The vista opened was too bright, and fairly dazzled
him. Was his heart's desire to be, after all, so completely
gratified ? Was he mistaken in his fears ?
Was it really possible that the chosen one, abandoning
scruples and forgetting prejudices, would truly
take by choice to the serving of raw beefsteaks ?
Stranger things have chanced. How Thomas would
rejoice if his boy were to come to him some day and
request him to supervise his training ! But no ; too
clear a morning ends in rain. And yet it was surprising
to observe with what respect the imperious
maid hearkened unto the words of Thomas, weighing
his opinions as of acknowledged value. The deliberations
of the secret council were sapient, overflowing
with sagacity. Caleb winked his eyes and looked unutterable
thugs when the talk was of the Hounds-ditch
people. If he was possessed of such important

intelligence with regard to them, why not speak at
once and have done with it ? No ; all in good time.
My lord did not know that a sword was hanging over
his head, the string attached to which Caleb intended
to cut with his own knife ; but Caleb knew it, and
liked to see it swinging.

Meanwhile, Lord Osmington took matters quietly
enough. His position from some points of view was
awkward ; but he hoped, by playing a judicious,
waiting game, to cope with the situation. Already he
had gained several tricks. A series of indistinct
obstacles deftly placed will for a long while defy
removal, and when time is gained, accident steps in,
often enough, to help the schemer. His Houndsditch
phantoms had proved vastly useful, jabbering as they
did in the dark. Of course, they would not bear
daylight ; but, such as they were, my lord was pleased
with them. Immediately after the futile visit to the
City, the tailor, as Cribbb prophesied, went to Osmington
House for orders. Somebody was sniffing about, he
said, who had frightened his nervous brother out of
his wits. Was ' not my lord satisfied ? Would he
kindly pay what he had promised, and allow his
employed to show a clean pair of heels ? No ; my
lord was not satisfied. The gentleman with the bell-shaped
hat, set on jauntily, was easily recognizable,
but was, outside his profession, perfectly harmless.
If Cribbb was foolish enough to meddle, 'twas, of

course, to please his favourite, who was sniffed No. 2.
No. 3 my lord could not recognize (supposing Caleb to
be in prison, he never thought of suspecting him) ;
but, doubtless, he was a low person of the same
kidney, and in nowise dangerous. " Go back," he said,
and don't be nervous ; but get rid of your brother,
who wriggles like a worm that's trodden on, and
courts suspicion. We've the Long Vacation before
us. Till the lawyers come back and pull out their
papers, no one can hurt a hair of your head. When
that time arrives, we'll see how things stand, and act
accordingly."

The snip went away comforted, and my lord reflected
again that he had every reason to be pleased with his
puppets. 'Twas crafty to have openly patronized the
fellow, to have treated his claim as a huge joke, to
have recommended him to the Prince Regent. If
necessary, he could fling him down and jump on
him ; for it stood to reason that he would not have
ostentatiously taken him up unless he felt sure he
was an impostor. Any one who knew Lord Osmington
would see at a glance that the ordering of his
ridiculously cut garments was a stroke of sarcastic
humor*, and that there was no collusion between the
two. Sir Samuel Shepherd, when asked, admitted
that the naughty jade. Miss Eowe, had charged my
lord with collusion ; but that he. Sir Samuel, had
rebuked her. The world would, of course, follow the

lead of so distinguished a luminary. Yes, the waiting
game was little trouble and the most effective. So
soon as it became no longer possible to keep the
phantom in the shade, he must be got rid of altogether,
and the game carried on with a different pack of cards.

While musing confidently thus. Lord Osmington's
confidential solicitor sent in to crave an interview.
What could he want ? What had happened ?

His lordship laid too much stress, the solicitor was
bound to say, upon the matter of the forgery. The
case against Leoline might with advantage be stronger.
The fact of his proposing to win his suit with manufactured
documents was grave; but there might be
difficulty in bringing home to him the crime. It was
true that so far he had maintained an unbroken silence
as to his culpability; but, in the opinion of Sir
Samuel Shepherd, it was Miss Kowe, and not he, who
was the guilty party. What ! shrieked my lord. He
had grudges against Miss Eowe on various counts, and
would fain make her smart for officiousness ; but just
at present it was Leoline at whom it was desirable to
throw stones. If Leoline could be proved a forger, it
would cut his claws for ever, and render, by the same
stroke, all future attempts of his little paladin on his
behalf abortive. " Poor, deluded girl ! " people would
say. " What will not a silly thing do to please her
sweetheart ? She will step up and swear an alibi for
him with a mouth in which butter would not melt,

regardless of her immortal soul and prospects of fire
and brimstone."

Do you presume to tell me that he'll get off ? "
Vere bawled, with a wicked glare. " He shan't get
off ! I won't have it."

To which the obsequious solicitor replied that
influence might be brought to bear to postpone the
criminal trial: technical points might be raised;
lawyers might be made to chatter. What easier than
to suggest that among the documents, which were in
Sir Samuel's hands, were other forgeries, and that it
would be convenient to obtain a postponement till the
peerage case was decided ? Yes ; that would suit my
lord very well; for he saw that here was another
example wherein a waiting game would be the best.
When in doubt, wait and watch. The affair requu-ed
the lightest handing. Fortune favours the steady and
persistent. All sorts of things might happen. The
culprit might catch gaol fever, and succumb during
the Long Vacation — a good riddance. So it came
about that Abigel received a grievous and unexpected
blow in the intelligence that the persecuted Leo was
to remain in duress for several months longer;
whereat she wept. But the secret council did not
share her perturbation. Common sense was well
developed in the Champion's pate, and he cogently
remarked that if the sphinx-like Caleb could really
unmask the Houndsditch people, and force them to

turn against my lord, Leoline would be saved by
delay from actual punishment — because with the end
of the Long Vacation must come the crisis.

This was admirably sage of Thomas, and his
remark brought Caleb to his feet. He knew what he
knew, he said, with his dark wink ; but here was a
point that occurred to him. In order to bring about
the promised denouement, it would be necessary to
produce the Houndsditch people. As matters stood,
what was to prevent their running away? The
members of the conclave stared at each other aghast.
Gentleman Jackson wagged his chin ; Cribbb scratched
his head; Cy looked despondent. The phantoms
must be watched, declared Caleb, and to that end he
proposed that he or one of the party should go down
to reconnoitre. Should he, Caleb, go ?

Caleb went, and returned after a few hours, baffled
and mystified. The fishmonger was gone — his shop,
at least, was fast closed — but the tailor was still at
home, superintending his serfs, as though everything
were rosy, and he received his visitor with the same
airy nonchalance as on the previous irruption. *' My
brother? " he said. '^ Oh, he's gone away for change
of air ; his health was unstable, and the fish trade in
this quarter doesn't pay, unless it's kosher."

'had he abandoned his intention of chatting in
the Upper 'Ouse ? " asked Caleb, pleasantly.

** Oh dear, no. But he knew better than to trouble

the big-wigs till lie ^Yas quite prepared, and would
some up to the scratch at the end of the Long Vacation,
smiling and sure to ^Yin."

But as he had important business to see to, he
must attend to it, and bid adieu to the gossiping
gentleman, who appeared to have so much time upon
his hands. So Caleb came away, having learned
nothing, except that one had escaped.

If the fishmonger chose to vanish, why should not
the tailor do the like ? He knew the probable date of
the inquiry. Was he watching the course of events
with intention of disappearing with a valise, and
muddling matters somehow, so as to lead to more
vexation ?

The possibility of such a design must be frustrated.
If Caleb would not be otherwise than sphinx-like, he
must throw himself into the breach. A system of
espionage would have to be inaugurated to prevent
the bird from flitting. One hiding-place should bethe
same as another. Instead of remaining in concealment
at Gentleman Jackson's, would Mr. Rannn
remove himself City-wards, take up his quarters in
the tavern which overlooked the sartorial premises,
and study the movements of the tailor ?

Caleb Ann consented. It was a purgatorial exercise
to him ; but he endured it for a while with heroic
perseverance, reporting himself occasionally at the
Borough, to say that the snip was superintending

his men, as if there were nothing on his mind. Mr,
Rannn occupied a back bedroom, from which a fine
prospect was obtainable of gutters and tiles, with a
peep into the modest apartment wherein the person
he was watching slept, so he had him well in view ;
but, as the snip did nothing unusual, time passed
slowly for the watcher, and it is probable that he
would have broken down in his virtuous intentions
had he not found in his host a votary of the noble
art. He gave boxing lessons to this worthy, duly
instructed him in the Beecher jump, the Mendoza
method of fast hitting, and found in him a promising
pupil, who, in return, was liberal in the matter of
free drinks and gossip about the affairs of the neighbourhood.
But even these sports and pastimes palled
at length upon the restless soul of Caleb, who became
low and depressed, declaring sometimes that it was
more lively in the Fleet, since there it was not necessary
to remain in ambush and take exercise under
cover of the night.

In suspense and weariness, suspicion of impending
worries, did the vacation drag its length along ; and
our little knot of schemers did not enjoy their autumn,
panting as they were compelled to be in the town
oven, enduring storms of dust and stifling heat and
the complaints of their bevy of witnesses.

At length the time was close at hand that all
awaited with an anxiety which varied only in degree.

and the commander-iii chief stated herself and her
council from lethargy, and began to look to her guns.
Betty Higgs, who long ago had grown dazed and
oppressed by the bustle to which she was unused,
were bidden to cheer up, for millennium and a cottage
was within snatching distance, if she only could
control her wits. Kimpton was informed that his
services would soon be wanted, and that his forge fire
must be permitted to go out; and when he donned
his Sunday suit, and took the coach again at Ripon,.
the tenants turned out in a body to give him a parting
cheer, and wish the cause God-speed. Nothing
disastrous had occurred in the interval to assist the
policy of the defence. Leoline had not caught gaol
fever ; none of the aged witnesses had expired ; the
commander-in-chief, looking to the buckles and
accoutrements of her army, found all in place. Sa
far as human prescience could see, there was literally
nothing of importance betwixt her and the prize. Sir
Samuel would return from his holiday in a few days
in improved health and temper ; icy suspicion would
give place to cordiality ; and in the merry ending,
the twists of the rack and the turns of the thumbscrew
would be forgot ; the sun would shine on the
virtuous. The one point which needed special care
and attention was with reference to the rival claimant.
Was Caleb perfectly certain that the filmy person
was tangible to the grasp — that he would not suddenly
VOL. in. i)l

pop off in a puff of smoke, leaving no wrack behind ?
"What is to prevent his packing his valise, even
at the last moment, and departing ? " persisted
practical Cy. " We must tie him by the tail, by fair
means or by violence ; " and, the conclave approving
the suggestion, it was carried nem. com. that the
phantom should be subpoenaed to bring him within
reach of the law.

That modest bit of paper, with its guinea honorarium,
produced more consternation on the visage of the
Houndsditch candidate than would have resulted from
a whole flight of another species of document — with
which, by the way, he was more familiar — commencing
with the preamble, " George, by the grace of God."
Watching him from his ambush, Caleb beheld his
cheek grow white. The rigid fingers fluttered as they
ran through his greasy locks. After its delivery, he
stood under the sign emblazoned with the patronage
of the nobility, and after glaring at it fiercely for a
while, retired within, evidently uncertain how to act.
That he, the rival claimant, should actually have been
subpoenaed by the other side, and thereby be forced to
jut in an appearance, whether he liked it or not, had
never entered within his range of possibilities, and
Caleb could see him walking up and down with a
perplexed brow and quivering lip. By-and-by, he
put on his best coat and sallied forth. Was he going
to retire without even a valise ? No. He bent his

steps towards Osmington House (whither Caleb
stealthily followed), and evidently received bad news
there ; for, turning whiter still, he turned sharp round,
nearly coining face to face with the spy who was
watching his movements. What could the bad news
be ? With easy nonchalance, Caleb strolled to the
well-known portals, and greeting the porter as an old
acquaintance, asked who the queer covey was who
seemed so twitter. '' A rum covey, indeed ! " returned
the porter. " When I told him that my lord
was still on the Continent, I thought he'd have a fit."
■*' Not come home yet?" inquired Caleb, as he took
his leave. Then the snip, afraid to await his patron's
return, was going to make a bolt of it. With all haste
Mr. Kann rem-ned to his place of observation. At
£erst, nothing ; but as night approached a light became
visible, moving to and fro in the upper chambers, and
caleb could trace the figure of the filmy one opening
drawers and cupboards. Caleb, who watched from
behind a shutter, became well-nigh as perplexed as
his neighbour, and uncertain as to his course. When
was he going to bolt, and in what direction ? The
watcher groaned in spirit, for now the knot of friends
who had promised to stand by him in the future
would revile the clumsy bungler, if he were to permit
this valuable person to slip between his fingers.
Single-handed he could do nothing — had not the
slightest conception of what he ought to do. How

could he track in the dark so slippery a person ?
What should he know of the law and its bewildering
ins and outs ? Yv^hat was the penalty for repudiating
a subpoena — hanging at Tyburn, or beheading on
Tower Hill ? Naught could be gained by staring out
of window, and naught could be arranged by himself
alone. It. would be necessary to run a risk ; for a
brief space to leave his post, and consult with his
distant colleagues.

Mr. Cribbb was closing the door of the Lion when
the breathless messenger arrived, with the alarming
intelligence that the filmy one was preparing to melt
into space. Mr. Cribbb was as unlearned in the law as
Mr. Caleb Kann. Cy was within. Under the urgent
circumstances, what did he propose ? The three
pugilists retired into the back parlour, and Thomas
produced pipes and glasses to give a jog to rusty
intellects ; but the trio stared at one another, and
awaited inspiration in vain while precious moments
sped, with the forlorn aspect of the blind who would
lead each other into the ditch.

It was two in the morning. There would be no use
in awakening Miss Rowe, for she, sharp as she was,
would prove as ignorant of technicalities as they. It
was out of the question to beat up their own legal
adviser ; for lawyers do not, like doctors, sport night
bells, or bawl opinions in their night-caps out of
window in the small hours. The legal mind would

require very violent refreshing indeed in the night to
assist its curiously fluctuating memory. The trio
must act according to their lights, and on their own
responsibility, for better or for worse. The best thing
to be done was to go down in a body to Houndsditch,
hind be guided by events . Such was the determination to
which, influenced by grog and the best Virginia, they
were impelled ; and it must be allowed that the advice
of those silent monitors, who needed no refreshing,
was as good as any other. Cautiously they approached
the shop. There was nothing unusual about it. The
shutters were closed, as they always were at night.
How silly, after all ! For what else could they expect ?
To find it wide open, or on fire ? With stealthy tread
they sought Caleb's eyrie, and the publican, though
surprised to receive company at such an hour, made
them welcome ; for was it not an honour to receive
under his roof the Champion of all England and the
celebrated Sprig of Myrtle ? Upstairs they went, and,
lighting no candle themselves, peered into the dark.
Two attenuated grimalkins were making love in a
gutter. In the apartment opposite there was no sign
of Hfe. What could it mean? Was the filmy one
already gone? If he could not be found, would Sir
Samuel grant another remand? " Be guided by events,"
said the silent monitors. The next thing was to go to
bed, and rise at dawn. Cyrus, agitated and uneasy,
was unable to sleep ; crept out before the rest into the

deserted street. What was that white thing glimmering
? A placard upon the shutter of the shop, which
was not there when he last looked on it. ** Closed
for the present in consequence of domestic affliction. "^
Then he was gone ? How aggravating ! Ahigel would
be in tears again, the tender bosom would heave with
new trouble. Since they had been on the trail, the poor
thing had become a fitful Niobe. Oh, for an end to-this
cycle of hopes and fears ! Suspense would soon
be past ; that was a blessing. But would it ? Now
that the phantom had melted, was there not a possibility
of more delay ? It would not bear thinking of.
With feverish impatience, Cyrus awaited an hour
when he could go to his cousin and break the shocking
news ; meanwhile his dear friend must stop with
Caleb on the look-out for anything fresh.

Abigel sent for her attorney, and from him gleaned
no comfort. If a man deliberately repudiates his
subpoena, he declared, you can issue a warrant and
catch him if you can, but until the sin is committed
you can do nothing. He may announce that he has
gone away, but it does not follow that he will not
return in time to put in an appearance. He must,
therefore, " miss his appointment " before the law can
come down on him ; and this was the very thing that
Abigel had schemed to prevent. No one had anything
pleasant or feasible to counsel, and Cy was forced to
endure glances of reproach in that he had not done

the impossible. Poor, long-suffering Cyrus ! Miss
Eowe, in her attitude towards her future husband, was
most unreasonable, making demands upon him which
were preposterous. But, then, we must remember that
it has always been the prerogative of brides-elect to be
unreasonable. The most firm and strong-minded of
men put up with their engaging tantrums, resolved
when the knot is tied to retaliate with vigour. Cy
meekly put up with his cousin's glances, but held his
peace, which made her vastly angry. Of course he
ought to have been sorrowful and sympathetic, but he
was neither ; for he was cudgelling his brains with all
his might, in hopes of unearthing an idea. By the
time he got back to Houndsditch, the street was full
of passengers hurrying to and fro ; but in the midst
of the life and bustle, the blank front of that shop
stood out conspicuous, like a tooth missing from a
set. There it was, hermetically closed. The blinds
of the windows above were drawn down; the crowd
of lively assistants was disbanded ; the sign creaked
with grim u'ony, babbling of noble patronage.

Cy was not so silly as to show himself staring at
the shop. He gazed at it furtively from behind a
cart, and, slipping into the tavern, joined his friends.
Nothing had transpired. But there was somebody still
in the house ; that Mr. Cribbb could swear, for he had
detected a shadow on a wall which was not thrown by
a rat or cat. He was sure that the tenement was not

deserted. What if the snip, unconscious of the eyrie,
had thought to delude those who might be dogging
him by ostensibly fleeing, but really remaining concealed
? It would be clever. Perchance the phantom
was as unlearned in the law as the bloodhounds had
been, and wist not that nothing could be done against
him until after the day of trial. Cy took courage, and,
seizing the manley of the Champion, begged to know
whether he who had stood by him so often was still
his friend. " How did he dare ask such a question ? "
grunted Mr. Cribbb.

Caleb, too, vowed that he was ready for anything,
and would with glee embrace any project which would
break the terrible monotony of staring at nothing.

"Well, then," announced Mr. Smalley, who rose
to the occasion, "we must go in for a thing that
may be queer, but which after results must justify.
We'll lie by all day, and in the evening make an
excursion across that gutter. The date fixed by Sir
Samuel is only four days off. If we find the fellow
lurking there, we must pin him as your dog Jack,
Tom, pinned the monkey. It may be quisby, but
we can't help that. The landlord here need never
know. We'll lock the fellow, if it turns out to be hein
a room in his own place, and take watching turn
about. 'Tis the only way I see of bringing him up to
the scratch."

Mr. Cribbb didn't much like the idea, but Caleb

was charmed with its audacity ; and it was ultimately
resolved to act upon it, despite the disapproval
of the Champion. Night came, and Crihh
had much ado to restrain the impetuosity of Caleb.
There was certainly some one in the house, and if it
really were the man, Caleb would be silent no longer.
Curtains were drawn in all but the deserted bedchamber,
yet on the lower windows an attentive eye
could detect now and again a gleam of radiance bisecting
the centre in a white line. Caleb, like a hound
in leash, was struggling against the collar. " You
must stop behind, papa Cribbb," he laughed, 'for
those rotten tiles will never support your weight.
'Twould have a fine effect if you came down on the
enemy through the roof ; but you might hurt yourself,
which would give 'em unnecessary pleasure. Leave
squirrel-gambols to the young and active. Presently
we will return with as many scalps as we can find ;
meanwhile, ta-ta ! "

Mr. Ann was the first out on the ledge, and the
woodwork under the tiles cracked ominously. The
light was so uncertain, too, that it was difficult to hit
on the least crazy places, and the venturesome fellow
came near a broken neck for his trouble. But he got
safe across, and smashing a pane with his elbow,
shot the bolt, and, raising the sash, let himself into
the bedchamber. Cyrus paused ere he followed, for
in the stillness the breaking of the glass seemed like

the fall of an avalanche — or, perchance, 'twas only
Mr. Smalley's nervousness which gave portentous
volume to the sound. *' Be very careful," Cribbb
whispered. " Crawl sideways on hands and knees to-spread
your weight. I will stay where I am, for I
weigh sixteen stone." Cy obeyed, and the Champion
breathed more freely when in turn he disappeared
within the opening. *'A pretty end," he grumbled,.
for one so talented to perish like a night robber !
That gal has ruined his prospects, and wants his life
as well. The harpy ! I wonder if she'll then be
satisfied ? "

While Mr. Cribbb was wishing unchristian things
with regard to Abigel, the two juniors were groping
about with hands before them. Cy found the door,
and, opening it, crept gently out on the landing to
listen. There was more than one person in the
house, for he could distinctly detect two voices
whispering. How the staircase groaned as the interlopers
stole down on tiptoe ! At the bottom of the
well a moving glimmer was visible, which,, as they
neared it, suddenly faded into darkness. This must
be the ground floor, for both young men stumbled
over rolls of cloth in the passages, and nearly flew
headlong down the lowest flight. A few steps more —
the kitchen. Through the uncurtained panes a dim
radiance outlined the copper and the jack depending
from the chimney-piece.

*' You are here ! " cried Cjtus. "I can smell the
"sick of the candle just extinguished. Come out at
once, or 'twill he the worse for 3-ou ! "

This exhortation was answered by a moan and
then a sigh, as of a soul in pain breathing its woes
through a keyhole.

"Be quick about it, my forty rum 'uns," laughed
Caleb. ''If you don't light that dip before I can
sneeze, I swear I'll pound you to a jelly."

Another voice sneered out of the gloom. "You
infernal double-distilled jackass ! " it hissed in wrath.
If you'd corked your snivelling they would never
have known that any one was here. Whoever you
are, there's little enough to steal. Whatever there
is, is in the shop. My Bible oath, it's true. Take it
and welcome, but leave us undisturbed."

"Generous person!" gibed Caleb. "Positively a
premium to housebreakers. We want you, old pals,
and not the shop ; so light that glim you've doused,
or else "

He was striding towards the corner from whence
came the moans, when there was a nimble scurrying
as of many mice. A flash — and there the two brothers-stood
revealed ; the one with a consumptive jauntiness,
the other in terror unmistakable.

"By the ghost of Boughton, bagged 'em both! "^
shouted Caleb, in high delight, which Cyrus shared
most cordially. " You offered your Bible oath just

ABIGEL ROWE.

now," he remarked waggishly; "that's just the
very article we want. Four days hence, my friend,
you'll have to give it, and after that you may hang
yourselves as soon as ever you please."

The fishmonger appeared relieved. A Bible oath !
Any number of Bible oaths. He would swear anything
to oblige the good gentlemen.

We want naught from you but silence," quoth
the Sprig of Myrtle with contempt ; upon which the
grovelling rascal cringingly inquired if he might not
go his ways. But it was soon made plain to him
that he could not yet be allowed to escape.

What we mean to do is this," bluff Mr. Smalley
said, " and I don't care how soon you know it. Till
dawn we stop here to enjoy your jovial society,
then we shall choose two secure places where you
will be separately locked up till wanted. My friend
here and I will take it in turns to stay with you, and
supply you with creature comforts. Whether ita
jolly time or not, rests with you. Anyhow it won't
be long, so you'd best put a cheerful face on it."

The tailor was staggered. *' What do you want of
us ? " he asked.

** I'll tell you what I want of you," cried Caleb.
I want you to up and tell Sir Samuel Shepherd all
about your arrangements with Lord Osmington — of
how he paid you to appear as a rival claimant and
make bother."

'' Never ! " the snip replied, considering that for
the present, at all events, it would be best to wear
a bold exterior.

*then I'm sorry," responded Mr. Ann, mimicking
the other's drawl, " that I shall be forced to accuse
you of fraud before that learned swell."

'fraud! A claim may break down though put
forward bond fide, and need not be fraud."

In your case I fear there is no doubt of it. I
warned you once, and you were too dense to take the
hint."

"Oh," groaned the fishmonger, '' indeed, my good
kind gentleman "

"I told you, I think, that your distinguished
ancestor, who came to town as a lad without a
penny, married his master's daughter ; but I did not
add that after the wedding he changed his name to
please his father-in-law, calling himself by his wife's
name of Jarvis — dropping his own name Smith."

The tailor moved not a muscle. " The old woman
told you that, I suppose? It's the nature' of old
women to tell lies."

"Foolish of 'em, ain't it?" gibed Caleb. "The
'prentice was married probably at St. Botolph's, the
parish church, or one of the City places thereabouts,
in his own name of Smith. It can easily be traced.
Doesn't it strike you that when your ancestor only
two generations back was called Smith, it's a bit

queer of you to claim the ancient earldom of the
Jervoises ? "

The miserable snip threw up the sponge. "Be it
as you wish," he murmured faintly.

We will confess ; oh yes, we will confess," put
in the fishmonger with obsequious volubility. " My
lord offered a taking bait to indigent folk like us —
required us only to bring about delay "

"And has deserted you, as his pleasant method
is," returned Caleb.

Which of the two brothers appeared most despicable ?
The elder, chapfallen now and sulky, said, after a
pause, with a persuasive whine, " 'Tis cruel hard to
earn bread and cheese. Would you ruin two poor
men?" * /

"By no means," replied the affable Mr. Smalley.
Clear up your share of the business, and we won't
prosecute."

Taking the key of the shop, Cy let himself out and
knocked up the publican, that he might report without
delay to expectant Thomas.

That's a good job finished ! " exclaimed the latter.
After this, I suppose. Miss Kowe will name the
day?"

CHAPTER XII.

MORE PEBBLES.

When the commander-in-chief galloped out again
'with her cohorts, this time to trounce the foe and
stick him through the midriff once for all, she was
quite certain that the point was gained — that, save as
regarded formalities, the battle was won ; and with the
conviction came an emptiness about the heart akin
to sadness. What a void there would be — a black,
far stretching hollow cave within the little breast!
Por several years she had schemed and puzzled her
brains, and worried herself and others over the all-engrossing
puzzle ; and now that the pieces were fitted
together at last, she began to wonder what would
happen to her when 'twas done and over.

Cy would take up his profession where he left it ;
resume the bit, and amble round and round, learning
new feats of skill under the trainer's whip ; and she,
as in duty bound, would applaud and supply encouragement,
and urge the courser to new effort. Ah

me ! 'twould be a dismal life ; but as it was so ordained
she must obediently bow the head. Father Cribbb,
Cy's adopted papa, and therefore hers, was bent
upon a meeting between the Sprig and that promising
youth, Jack Eandal. He did not expect to be gratified
in his desire, because she, small but impenetrable
obstacle, stood in the way. But he should be gratified,
Miss Eowe determined. He was a good, kind man ;
more true, more practically useful, than all the highborn
fine-weather friends of more ambitious days.
Who was she to set up her puny prejudices against
the yearnings of that stout heart ? Did she not
know, too, that his pupil was inwardly devon-ed by
chagrin, in that by her caprice his career seemed ended
at its outset ? Although by an effort of will he kept
them quiet, Cy's sinews were quivering to have a trial
of strength with Eandal's. Yet the dear faithful
fellow tried to conceal the fact from his beloved, and
his submission rather annoyed her. It was not he,
but Gentleman Jackson, who told her, with reproachful
eyes, of how his Grace of Beaufort, meeting the
Sprig in the street, had rated him for his listless air
and idleness, and renewed his offer of patronage.
Then she had said nothing, pretending not to understand,
but had registered a secret vow that so soon
as the grand quest was over she would have it outwith
Father Cribbb, and show that she also could be
generous.

Why will well-meaning friends advise us and
interfere with words in our affairs, when they are
not prepared to he of real service ? The Princess
Charlotte had been mightily glib in denouncing what
she was pleased to consider as an ill-assorted
marriage, declaring that she would do this, that, and
the other; and what had she done to prevent it?
Goodness gracious ! When she arrived at this point
in her train of thought, Ahigel started violently, and
glanced guiltily round the waiting-room at Sergeants*
Inn, where she was sitting with her witnesses, and
was relieved that Cy should he absent. What would
he think, who was so straight and simple, if, delving
into her breast, he should detect a trace of such
fancies ? Fie, for shame ! She did not want the
interference of Charlotte. On the contrary, Charlotte
looked at the matter through darkened glasses, and
failed to realize facts. What more preposterously
absurd than to suggest that a match between two
cousins could be a mesalliance ? Rubbish and nonsense
! Charlotte was a nice girl, but must mind her
own business. Let it suffice her that her own lot had
been cast as she desired. And what a lot ! Fancy
adoring a husband who was always saying " Doucement,"
checking your whims, curbing your freaks.
Abigel would never have got on with a pedagogue
spouse. She would have scratched his eyes out,
spoilt his Byronic beauty, flung the ferule at his

VOL. III. 68

head, and have rushed into the wilderness to exhale
her grief and anger. Down at Claremont, the
imperious maid was forced once or twice to bite her
lip in order not to retort rudely when Manfred droned
out his platitudes ; and on her way home had marvelled
how Charlotte, erst so naughty and rebellious,
could bend her white neck to the yoke, and apparently
enjoy the process. Her own stubborn little brown
neck should never wear a yoke, or her ruddy lips a
bit. Charlotte's behaviour was really beneath contempt
; for had she not said, when papa tried to force
her inclinations, that her husband, when she got one,
should be her first subject, not her lord ? And here
she was the slave of a handsome and poetic Corsair,
watching his will like a dog, fawning on him for a
caress ! Was so inconsistent a woman to presume to
regulate the life of another ? Certainly not. If her
friend Abigel thought fit to espouse her cousin she
would espouse her cousin, and '^ all the king's horses
and all the king's men " should not change her determination.
Why should friends presume to twist our
lives after the pattern of their own ? At this point
Miss Eowe would rather have perished than give up
her cousin ; and as she was so paradoxical and
wayward, so unsettled as to what she wished, it
was as well, perhaps, that her meditations should
have been interrupted by the advent of Sir Samuel's
clerk.

The Attorney-general was ready, he announced, to
go into the vexed question of the claim, if the representatives
of both parties were present. Mr. Leoline
Jarvis was in his Majesty's temporary keeping, and
could therefore not attend ; but, doubtless, his counsel
was there and witnesses.

"Of course his counsel was there, and witnesses,"
cried impetuous Abigel, jumping off her seat. " What
a ridiculous question to ask ! "

*that was all right," grinned the clerk. "Mr.
Alexander Jarvis, of Houndsditch — he who entered a
caveat— had he instructed his solicitor to appear ?
Mr. Alexander Jarvis had been most remiss, and Sir
Samuel most long-suffering ; but there were limits to
the patience even of an Attorney-general "

Mr. Alexander Jarvis is here in person, and sois
his brother," cried Cy, entering at this juncture ;
and behind him, in truth, came the City phantoms,
guarded in the rear by Cribbb and the Pink of
Bow.

Abigel gave her cousin a bright look of thanks, and
tied with cm-iosity to contemplate the bogies who
had caused her so much disquiet. Washed out,
ireful, laughable ghosts. Hollowed turnips, without
even a light within. The fishmonger, pale and
haggard, rubbed his palms together constantly, and
performed a series of obsequious obeisance to the
company, as if to apologize for presuming to exist.

The tailor, too, was humble, running his fingers
through his hair with nervous gesture. What the
pugilists had done to him during his three days'
enforced occupancy of a cellar in his house, it
becometh not this chronicler to say ; but whatever
it was, they had succeeded in breaking his-spirit
and reducing him to the condition of his
brother.

"You've to make a clean breast of it, remember,"
Cy whispered to him, as the party were ushered into
the presence. " Speak without fear of my lord
Osmington. His day is over, thank Heaven ! " and
the other nodded with the obedience of a serf to the
holder of the knout, and followed meekly at his heels.

He did speak out, and, as he proceeded with his-tale,
the brow of the Attorney-general grew darker,
though, when he glanced now and then at Abigel, hi
expression became less frozen. What a base, bad
fellow this lord must be ! Wonders would never
cease. He had, to suit his selfish purpose, actually
bribed these persons — they confessed it — who by mere
accident bore the name of Jarvis, to throw pebbles in
the way of justice ! So unscrupulous an individual
was not one to stick at trifles. It was very likely
that Miss Eowe's explanation was the true one, though,
he. Sir Samuel, had been loth to suspect a peer of
mean devices. There was an end of the caveat, of
course, and of the counter-claim ; and it lay with the

opposite side to prosecute. Here the tailor quickly
intervened. He had confessed on the strict understanding
that the matter should end here. If they
liked to hiring him face to face with my lord, he was
quite ready. Had he not done his hest to remedy his
fault? The young journeymen whom, seduced hy
false promises, he had engaged could speak to his
lordship's visits, and so forth. The other side might
do what they thought proper, but must refrain from
seeking revenge. That was a clear understanding,
and he held the opposition to their bargain.

With a wave of the hand. Sir Samuel bade him
cease ; and with a graceful inclination to Miss Kowe,
inquired whether she would not like the pleasure of
herself explaining the case. Her counsel was present,
as he saw; but it was she who had worked up the
evidence, and perchance

Oh dear, yes, that she would ! cried Abigel, with
sparkling eyes. Who should know all about it as well
as she, who had pored over the subject for — never
mind how long, wrestling with its knots, painfully
working at its tangles ? Moreover, was not our dear
heroine a maUresse-femme, who liked to have things
her own way ? So, in her pretty chip hat and pink
silk pelisse and long white mittens to the elbows, she
stood beside the table and declaimed, and won the
admiration of all. Who might resist so fascinating
a barrister? Not Sir Samuel Shepherd, or Mr.

ABIGEL ROWE.

Townshend, Windsor Herald, or Mr. Woods, Blue
Mantle. As we have cause to know, her eyes could
dart forth flames, hers tongue be a two-edged sword ;
but, on occasion, the dark orbs could be languishingly
persuasive, the accents soft and silvern. And how
well she told her story! With what animation did
she depict the half-crazy Lady Olivia on her deathbed
; Vere's father and Pentecost hovering on either
side, promising all sorts of things ; and their
deliberately setting to work before she was cold to
obliterate awkward proofs. The plausible alterations
in the church, and the removal of the tell-tale monument
— its concealment and subsequent discovery.
All present turned with interest to view the silent
witness, as Mr. Kimpton removed the box-lid and
wiped away the sawdust ; and Caleb looked shyly at
Cyrus, who clapped him kindly on the shoulder.
Each paper was examined with extremest care, but
no flaw was to be detected. The torn, edge of the
certificate of Hans' birth found in the kettle-holder
tallied exactly with one of the torn pages in the
tattered register, and the woman from Crows' Liberties
was able to swear that she herself had torn it. So
was it with the slab. Betty Higgs, quite a Londoner
now, and stout with unaccustomed good living, had
been in the habit of dusting it, and would know it
again among a thousand. The marriage lines of
Hans and Naomi were proved correct by the country

parson, ^Yllo produced the original document. Sir
Samuel consulted with the heraldic bashaw, who
examined the ivory box and seal, as if they expected
them to explode; and when the three had wagged
their chins and knocked their sapient heads together
for a brief space, they sat down, each in his place,
and wagged their chins again, and the Attorney-general
spake.

He was satisfied, he said, that the claim of Leoline
Jarvis, otherwise Jervois, was properly substantiated,
and only regretted that evil machinations in high
quarters should have postponed his verdict. Nothing
could be clearer. Even if the Houndsditch claimant
had not confessed, and so saved trouble, it would
have devolved on him to show that his James Jarvis,
of London, was identical with James Christopher,
brother of Archibald. It was a characteristic circumstance
that the forged document, about which there had
been such a pother, should have been signed '* James,"
instead of " James Christopher." But, fencing over,
this technicality was fortunately avoided. The report
of the Attorney-general to his Royal Highness
George, Prince Regent, acting for and on behalf of his
sacred Majesty, should be made out forthwith, and be
transmitted to him through the Secretary of State for
the Home Department. His Royal Highness would
probably send it on to my lord chancellor, who
would, no doubt, look at it, and send it back again ;

and, after that, the Prince Kegent would most likely-sign
a royal warrant, empowering his Chancellor to
issue a writ of summons to the new peer, commanding
his attendance in the House of Lords by the style,
title, and dignity of Earl of Northallerton.

Miss Eowe's face fell. Probably — no doubt — most
likely ! Did Sir Samuel mean to imply that all was
not over yet ? That, if induced so to do, the Grand
Signor might pop the report into his capacious
dressing-gown pocket, and leave it there; that my
lord chancellor might leave it on his table unlooked
at till its characters were faded by time ; that the
Prince, on getting it back again, might forget to
countersign and transmit it to the legal pundit ?

Sir Samuel dismissed the assembly, but, with a
good-natured laugh, retained the disconcerted damsel.
"I spoke as I did," he remarked drily, when they
were alone, "because I deemed you acute enough to
take a hint. This Lord Osmington, if his influence
with the Prince yet exists — I'm told at one time it
was great — may yet delay the writ of summons, a^ I
stated. By some means or other, you must put such
pressure on his Royal Highness as to induce him to
command me to proceed. I would recommend you to
see to it at once. Good morning."

One word more ! " implored Miss Eowe, by no
means jubilant. *'Mr. Jarvis is lying under this
unjust accusation. How is he to be set free ? "

'• You iQcay be sure," returned Sir Samuel, gravely,
-'* that the evidence of those Houndsditcli rascals will
be embodied in my report ; and Lord Osmington will
have to be worked upon to make him withdraw the
charge, or substantiate it without more postponement.
Use your wits, and accept my congratulations.
You are the most persevering young lady that I
ever saw."

Abigel found herself somehow outside a closed door,
and felt, as it slammed, as if the echoes were gibing
at her concern. The tangles in this skein apparently
had no end. Access to this particular coronet was
defended by a Hydra, whose heads were Legion.
What should she do ? Use her wits, forsooth. All
her resources were exhausted, her energies well-nigh
spent. Human strength has its limits, and we cannot
be expected to chop off heads for ever. Her bevy
of witnesses gathered round, also the tailor and the
fishmonger, and vied in the noisiness of their
applause. Above all the din, Betty's shrill treble
screeched ; for she did not intend people to forget the
share she had taken in the business. Abigel was
glad to escape, with Kimpton and the pugilists, to
consider the situation in quiet. She could not again
present herself at the Pavilion. Lady Hertford would
think her artful and designing, might even suppose
her capable of trying to play Mrs. Bashan to her
Sarah duchess, and it would never do to risk so

important an influence being cast into the wrong
scale. The Prince, besides, might not be showing offa
pair of trousers, and be amiable in consequence.

The Kegent would have to be attacked; but how
was it to be done ?

li Through the Princess Charlotte," decided Cyrus.
a There's no other way. She's in an interesting
situation, and it's only natural she should wish to be
friendly with her father. He drives down to see herat
Claremont. Make it your business to be there
when he arrives."

How her cousin's intellects were brightening ! The
very thing. Abigel would go to tell her friend of her
success ; but she would not allow her to remonstrate
any more about her marriage. 'T would be disloyal
and improper. Charlotte must help for the last time.
Would the pedagogue object ? Surely not, as things
were. The pedigree was lucid and satisfying. He
would be convinced by looking at it. So would anybody
else. Here it is : —

O cl O fcJO

^W

<

o

o o o

;h o «

o o i3

O 02

o o o

II

o ^

§" d ■"* >-H

o ^ o

O (D

c3-i^C"

•3 5 1:

His

'S 00 -M

I-S i-l i-H

O) t^ o

bD o -r
opqQ
Ph

a 5 GO

a 02 o
.^ o o

-II ^

t-i o

O Oi

g/S 3

Chapter XIII.

MY LORD MAKES UP HIS MIND.

So soon as he had succeeded in arranging the " waiting
game " to his satisfaction, Lord Osmington went
abroad, with the intention of amusing himself as
much as possible, until summoned home by a note
from Sir Samuel Shepherd. In an airy and devil-may-care
fashion he had indited an epistle just on the
eve of starting, in which he said that he relied on Mr.
Attorney General to let him know what passed with
regard to the impostors ; and this being done, he dismissed
the subject from his mind. But his foreign
trip was not a success. Continental travel in a well-appointed
britzka, drawn by fleet posters, is all very
well if you have health and spirits to enjoy the varying
panorama ; but if your nerves decline to be braced up,
if your tongue is as dry as leather, your brain like a
drum with the devil's tattoo being constantly beaten
on it, 'tis wiser to repose by your own fireside in a
well-stuffed /di^iemZ. Vere went to Paris, and enjoyed
the change as much as he was now capable of enjoying

anything ; but when he endeavoured to get on as
far as Homburg, to drink the waters, he found the
way extremely long and the roads unaccountably
stony, and it came on him with a gush of childish
anger that he was surely drifting into that horrid
condition called old age. Muchaquita, the new sultana
en titre, was very troublesome, too ; for she saw no fun
in being bounced about for hours in dust and heat, and
made the days so unpleasing to my lord by reason of
clamor* and complaint, that he bundled her without
ceremony into the coach behind with the servants,
and was fain to travel in solitude. This was worse
than all, for, having him at their mercy, goblins
tweaked him, declining to be exorcised ; and he became
so unhinged by perpetual nightmare, that he ordered
the cavalcade to right-about face and return to the
French capital, till it should please him to go back
to England. Sitting thus alone, persons and events
which it was his business to ignore crowded before
his mental vision — dead Pentecost ; his crazy
mother ; the objectionable Leoline, and the obnoxious
Abigel. Vere found himself compelled to
examine the situation instead of shelving it; to
consider what his next move should be. The affair
had been put off and put off with admirable results sofar,
but it could not be postponed for ever. There
was no present cause for anxiety, since one claimant
was in dm-ess, while the other was in his pay, and

had been well instructed as to what was expected of
him. After much consideration, my lord determined
to return to town at the end of autumn, and take steps
to nip the nuisance in the bud before it expanded any-further.


How was this to be done effectively — once for all
and for ever? He would have to go to his royal
master and friend, and conjure him, by iDast days and
nights of jocund revelry, to help him in a strait.
Unfortunately, the Prince had changed a good deal of
late under influence of gout and the English Maintenon,
professed ridiculous punctilio, and waning affection
for Nym and Bardolph. But if an old crony
were to ask a favour, he would not refuse — oh dear, no.
And the particular favour in question was of a purely
negative kind. Vere didn't want to borrow money, or
anything offensive of that sort. He wanted his royal
pal to assume the role of a wet blanket — that was all ;
:and sure 'twas not much to ask. He had dropped
Brummel like a hot potato, but that was his own
fault. To poor, drunken Sherry, the Prince had been
as kind as circumstances would permit: it was not
within the bounds of human effort to set that broken
Humpty-Dumpty on his shaky legs. He had been
dirty and disreputable, but had never railed against
the old love. Vere had never railed against the old
love, and was not dirty ; so there was no reason why
the Regent should refuse a small favour. The more

lie thought it over, the more convinced he became that
he must speak as openly as he dared, and ask his
Royal Highness not to encourage the enemy. Consistently
reckless, he had made no inquiries since he
Event abroad as to whether any novel features had
shown themselves in the peerage case. But now,
journeying in solitude, he resolved that immediately
on his return to England he would finally take the
matter up ; and having come to this grave determination,
he folded his hands over his waistcoat, and
sought refuge from thought in sleep.

It was late in autumn when the cavalcade — ladies,
servants, cooks, musicians, what not — rattled into the
courtyard of Osmington House, and my lord, weary
and broken with jolting, betook himself forthwith to
bed. It was far on in the afternoon of the following
day when he rang his bell for the secretary, in order
that that gentleman might give an account of all that
had happened in his absence. Not a pleasant report.
His arrival had spread like wildfire, and the waiting-rooms
were crowded with clients, some fawning and
servile, some noisy and menacing. My lord had
awakened with an unusually bad headache, and was
sick and nervous. '' Don't gabble rubbish ! " he
cried, as he strummed with pale, quivering lingers on
a table. "Who are the vulgar idiots, and what do
they want ? "

There were people to whom he had made promises

before he went away, which promises had never been
kept. There was Hamlet the jeweller, who refused
to be put off with blandishments. There was Jameson
the mantua-maker, with a tremendous bill. There
was Harris the silversmith, from whom, in her
friend's name, Juliana had cunningly taken up twa
thousand pounds' worth of gems, with which she had
departed on a tour. Here, on this salver, were nineteen
petitions ; on this one, twenty applications for
subscriptions due to clubs ; ever so many more from
establishments and institutions for the promotion of
horse-racing and the noble art of self-defence.
'^ Curse the noble art ! " roared my lord, with
malignant ferocity. How was the household ?

Very so-so. As the secretary had had the honour
to observe, Juliana, like the raven, had left the Ark
never to return. Josephine and Susanne were ill from
eating bonbons, with two doctors in constant attendance.
Zamora, the Spanish vixen, had pretended to
commit suicide from jealousy at being left at home,
and, more successful than she meant to be, was in
extremis. Augustine, in spite of all Fig the coachman's
efforts, had insisted on driving my lord's
favourite horse in a curricle, and had broken its knees.
The said coachman had then flown at mademoiselle
French serving-man, and there had been bloodshed
and battery

Enough ! enough ! " roared Vere, with growing

wrath. The Continent had proved unbearable ; home
Twas intolerable.

''Ah, by-the-by," resumed the secretary, "there's a
Signor Pecci, who has writ an heroic opera, in which,
for a consideration, your lordship is to figure as hero ;
a Portuguese girl with some fine antiques for inspection
; and a decayed gentleman with arms and armour,
which he insists that your lordship shall buy."

Curse his impudence ! " roared my lord again.
What of the treasury ? Has the agent "

'that's the worst," declared the secretary. "He
wrote last week that, in consequence of the Attorney-general's
report, the Yorkshire tenants have unanimously
refused to pay their rent, since, the dormant
peerage being revived, the property will also be
claimed."

What ? " shrieked Lord Osmington, with a ghastly
face. " The Attorney-general has "

"Quick!" the frightened secretary cried. "His
lordship is taken ill. Some water— quick ! Indeed,
I thought he new it, or would have broken the news
more gently."

Yere fell back in his chair, his face drawn up by
spasms, his brow dank and wrinkled, and snored
heavily. Was he stricken with paralysis? No.
After being blooded, he slowly recovered, and lay
staring out of window at the sunny street till dusk,
without uttering a sound. Yonder hackney coachman

VOL, III. 59

was to be envied, though his hat was aimless, his coat
in tatters. To judge by his jovial, weatherworn visage,
he was not haunted by the past. He had no sycophants
to pester him, no debts to harass him, no establishment
to eat him up alive, no enemies to track him
down and ruin him. The Attorney-general had not
kept his word — had not informed his lordship of his
proceedings. Had the case, then, been tried in his absence
? What had transpired ? How much had come
out ? The dormant peerage revived ! It was extinct
dead as a door-nail ! Vere gnashed his teeth, and
swore that nothing was ever more defunct ; and then
the tears coursed down his face, and he was deeply
grieved for himself. If the Attorney-general had
reported favourably, these people must have found
something of whose existence he, Vere, was ignorant.
How cruel of his father and of Pentecost to tell him
that everything was safe, when it was not ! They had
with their assurances lulled him into a false security ;
otherwise he would have been vigilant, so very vigilant,
and step by step have defeated them. Oh, it was
selfish of his father to make things secure for his own
life, and then go down into the family vault without
caring what happened to his son ! As for Pentecost,
she was a puling, drinking, drivelling hag — a wicked
witch ! And Vere, as he ground his teeth, poured
forth anathema with moist, weak lips upon his foster-mother's
name. Night came on — a terrible, awful

night, full of whirling memories that semi round his
head like bats ; vampires, armed each with a hot
point to burn his flesh, sharp teeth to bite, a harsh
"voice to yell and rave. Such a night Vere had never
spent in all his life, and shuddering, he vowed never
to pass such another. Purgatory, with all its terrors
of flame and demon, could not be more unendurable.
Feverish and really ill, he rung his bell betimes,
summoned the valet and the barber, and snapped at
them for their ponderous sloth. What had transpired?
If he only knew ! Imagination and uncertainty, perchance,
were making a mountain of a molehill ; fear
was constructing a bugaboo to terrify him withal.
How should he find out quietly what had transpired,
in order to trim his sails in accordance with events ?
Ashamed of the display of weakness of which the
secretary had been witness, he would not again receive
that personage. Ordering a plain chariot, he crept up
its steps, an enfeebled invalid, and directed the driver
to Houndsditch. So! both shops' shut; the owners
gone away on account of domestic affliction. That
was all right. They had fled at the proper moment,
as was intended. They would want money, which my
lord knew not how to raise. How provoking of the
Attorney General not to give him notice of the date of
his investigation ! What was his own solicitor about ?
True, while he was abroad, letters might have pursued
in vain. What a fool he had been not to watch.

knowing, as he might have known, that the infernal,,
ungrateful jade was energy incarnate ! However, the
tailor had made good his retreat ; that was a comfort.
Should he call on Sir Samuel Shepherd, and airily
demand particulars ? No. His nerves were too
shaky ; the shock had been too severe. He would goto
Carlton House, and see if his old friend was there.

His Royal Highness was not at home. Yere
glanced with suspicion at the servants, for Brummel
and Sherry had in turn been informed that his Royal
Highness was not at home, though through a window
they could catch a glimpse of the familiar casey. He
was in town, for the Royal Standard was waving overhead.
Was he at home to others, but not to him ?
His Royal Highness was gone to Claremont, a footman
explained ; had expressed his intention of dining with
the Princess Charlotte and Prince Leopold, and returning
in the evening. Gone to Claremont ! The-last
place where Vere would have thought of running
him to earth. Though little inclined to merriment, ho
burst into a laugh, and as his eye wandered in the
direction of Warwick House, close by, scene of so
many broils, the footman perceived his meaning anti
smiled. Insolent varlet ! how dared he presume to
grin at my-lord Osmington? Things were coming to
a pretty pass. Dash, dash, dash ! would the coachman
be good enough to drive home like fury, and
order out the brand-new coach ? My lord would drive

to Claremont, and pay this humble respects to his
much-loved friend and master.

If a bombshell had dropped into the central flowerbed
of the quiet Claremont garden, it would not have
created more surprise and dismay than the unexpected
irruption of my lord Osmington, cadaverous
and wan. A young man who prowled in the shrubbery,
upon perceiving the equipage, dashed across the
lawn into the mansion, and, regardless of ceremony and
etiquette, proclaimed the amazing news. Bluebeard,
when calmly dining and expecting the head of Fatima
as a table ornament, was not more startled when a
watchman on the castle keep echoed the sentiment
of sister Anne, and announced that " somebody was
coming."

Miss Eowe, who sat on the floor beside the couch
upon which the Princess reclined, turned red and
white, and looked instinctively to her cousin for
advice. Charlotte started. Manfred was too staid
to be astonished by anything. The Prince of Wales
looked furious, and muttered under his breath, "Was
ever such assurance ! " 'Twas a pity that a bombshell
should fall in the midst of so sweet a group;
disturb the harmony of so pretty a dovecote. Her
father was so amiable and captivating that Charlotte
forgot her habitual dread, and began to realize that
she had judged him harshly, and had acted like a
naughty girl. But though she was glad to see him

under genial and favourable auspices, which if continued
would induce the growth of love, she could not
blame herself for having cloven to her mother. That
trouble-fete being disposed of (she was at this moment
squalling duets at Parma with Marie Louise, ex-empress),
factious jealousy was at an end. And into
the midst of the entrancing tableau of mutual affection
and trust plunged the inopportune Vere, like
a bull into a china-shop. Was he likely to gain his
object ? When he entered the drawing-room something
told him " No." The atmosphere was unsuitable
— there were inimical germs hovering ; he wished,
too late, that he had not come. The first impulse of
the Kegent had been to deny him admittance; but
the pedagogue, who showed signs of wielding his
ferule even over the august casey, decided otherwise.
"Better see him now in an informal way," he whispered.
"Treat him coldly, and he'll take a hint.'^
Such counsel jumped with the lazy inclinations of
the Grand Signor, who hated scenes ; so he held out
two gouty fingers, and hoped his lordship was well.
His lordship was enchanted to behold his Prince so-stout
and hearty, and his Princess the embodiment
of happiness. Might they ever, etc., etc. — with his
hand upon his bosom — was his constant and fervent
prayer. And, bless his heart ! either his sight
deceived him — and 'twas not as good as it was — or
here was Miss Eowe, who in happier days used to

share his home — the dear Euphrosyne — and to rake
his tea ? His Royal Highness would not believe it,
though none understood the sex as well as he, but
this lovely maiden — dem it, lovelier than ever — was
a Machiavel in petticoats. For all her simple air,
she was fit to be Prime Minister, femme if she wasn't.
He had been unlucky enough to incur her dislike, but
he bore no malice — not he, and was ready this very
minute to shake hands and take her home again, and
let bygones be bygones. What trifles affect our lives !
The remark was trite, he knew, but could not help
making it for all that. If she hadn't taken it into
her dear darling little noddle to go to a certain
ridotto, certain silly speeches would not have been
made, and certain quick-tempered damsels would not
have been huffy, and all would have been right. The
damsel would have been my lady Osmington by this
time, for he always intended to propose so soon as he
had summoned courage.

If Adam hadn't eaten an apple, he would be still
in Eden," quoth Miss Eowe from her seat on the
carpet. She loathed humbug, and to see Vere
grimacing and capering like a posture-master raised
her gorge. His one virtue used to be a downright
bluff contempt for public opinion. It was horrible to
see him, unnerved and driven mad by intangible
terrors, playing the servile sycophant.

The Prince of Wales was as shocked as she at the

change, and was specially disgusted at perceiving the
ugly brand on the brow of the last of the cronies. He
had made even a more elaborate toilette than usual ;
but it was there, nevertheless, not to be concealed, and
his master shrank at sight of it. One after another,
all had succumbed to dissipation except this one. On
his waxen skin, his bloodshot eye, his moist lip, his
twitching muscles, might be traced the fatal mark.
Was he, the head, also to succumb in turn? Now
that the here noire was gone, life was not unpleasant.
Is it to be always so ? Are we to toil and struggle,
and fight and suffer, in order to win the cup ; and
when we seem to clutch it, is it always to be dashed
from our lips ? What a mockery, then, this life of
illusions, of hopes that may never be gratified, of
desires that may never be fulfilled ! The Prince
of Wales was firmly resolved that he, at least, would
be an exception to the rule. Gouty he was, with no
digestion to boast of, but a fine man still. Like
Candide, he was cultivating his garden, and was
beginning to feel a new sensation of quiet bliss as he
sat in the grounds of the Pavilion and designed his
weird adornments. Sherry had by his aspect given
him turns, and, therefore, though he loved him, he
could consent to look on him no more. He had
never loved Vere as he loved Sheridan; and after
what had come out about my lord, he would be
compelled to drop him.

Lord Osmington was soon extremely sorry that lie
had not remained at home. Perceiving that the civil
speeches which issued so oddly from his lips were not
appreciated, he began to dread lest something awful
should have transpired in his absence, and begged
the Regent if he might ask for a few moments in
private. '' Lady Hertford would be glad, I know, if

she were here " he was beginning, when the

Prince cut him short.

"I think that anything you have to say," observed
his Royal Highness, '^ may be said before the present
company. Those Houndsditch rascals have confessed,
so I would recommend them to the good offices of
yom* lordship. You will, of course, withdraw the
charge against my lord Northallerton ? "

Yere felt cold from top to toe, but, stringing up his
nerves with a supreme effort of will, remained outwardly
composed. " The Houndsditch rascals ! Egad,
those Jarvises were comical blades ! "

Their name is Smith," remarked the Regent, with
meaning.

Smith ! " ejaculated my lord, in real surprise. " I
swear on my honour that I never knew that."

The two ladies smiled, for they did not believe my
lord ; while the Regent' s brow grew black as thunder.
Lord Osmington proceeded to explain. His Royal
Highness must excuse ignorance, but having just
returned from abroad, he knew nothing. My lord

Northallerton ! The Prince was satisfied, then, a&
to the justice of his pretensions ? "Who would have
thought it? Having paid his humble respects, he
would retire. So the dreamy young man was to sit
in the House of Lords ! How glad his patroness, the
Princess of Wales, would be ! Why, for her 'twould
be quite a triumph ! With that parting stab Lord
Osmington made a bow, and with quite a jaunty step
got into the brand-new coach.

Curse him ! " the Prince muttered, as the carriage
rolled away, "that is the one source of regret I
have in the matter. It will please Caroline ! "

And the fair girl lying on the sofa stretched forth
her hand and whispered, '' Hush, hush ! You promised
to be just. If contrary to private inclination, 'twill
look the more disinterested and noble."

Lord Osmington reflected as he drove back to town.
His eye was brighter than it had been for many a
day, and a cynical smirk played about his lips.
*aha! I had him there," he muttered. "Hope he
liked it. To think that they are Smiths ! I never
cared to ask. He throws me over in my hour of
need. If I'd served my God as I have served my
king, and all that, as Sherry said. I might have
known, though, that he would do the bidding of a
wench. Well, it's over, it seems — quite over. That's
better than dragging on when a thing's hopeless.
An absurd place, the world ; not worth living in after

five and twenty, when illusions vanish. The sport of
passions, man's led blindfold where they please, and
they, having involved him in difficulties, leave him
to extricate himself as he may."

My lord stepped out of the coach so blithely that the
household, who knew whither he had gone, and where
peeping through chinks and keyhole with as many eyes
as a peacock's tail, thought he must have been successful
in his suit. Mr. Hamlet's man, who had turned up
with evil intentions, put his paper back in his pocket,
and, with a profound obeisance, asked if there were
any orders. The secretary skipped down the stairs ;
and Muchaquita, who had been packing up, flew from
behind a j^ortiere into the arms of her dear love,
vowing that he looked quite juvenile. Was all well ?
Would he take her at once to Richmond, as she
wanted some fresh air ? " Not to-day," he said, with
a loud laugh. "All is well, quite well; couldn't be
better. We'll have dinner at seven — a dinner of congratulation
and affection; the whole menagerie."
Dash, dash ! Monsieur Eude's best viands ; and the
pretty dears would be obliging enough for once to
refrain from open abuse. How delightful ! All
clapped their hands and pulled out their best gowns
and rouge-pots and cosmetics, and set themselves to
decorate like Jezebels in honour of the festive occasion.
How prudent Susanne had been, proclaimed that
sylph, to advise the menagerie to wait before taldng

to flight. Ce pauvre milord had been a prey to care
for ever so long, but now ce bon Prince had set his
mind at rest. There was a divine suite of emeralds
at the corner of Cranbourn Alley. Before the night
was out she would wheedle them out of my lord.
Augustine considered that it would be wise to secure
what they had before laying themselves out for more.
All her things were safe at an hotel. And many
that were not hers, too, scoffed Cornelia. And so
the darlings went on in their usual delectable manner
till it was time to descend to the. drawing-room, and
there even they, accustomed as they were to luxury,
were taken aback by the unusual splendour. Illuminated
a giorno with wax candles, how handsome the
saloon appeared with its choice nicknames, china,
bronzes ! And in the middle of the gorgeous carpet
stood my lord — he was always a whimsical fellow, so
full of quaint esprit — clad in a simple military frock.

How ugly ! " cried Augustine, with a little scream ;
and he has such beautiful clothes ! "

Ugly enough," responded the smiling host. " It
is the uniform I wore when I was a soldier — in early
life, when I believed in innocence and human goodness
— and it amuses me to put it on in your presence,
and try and recall those preposterous fancies. But
come, ladies, I am not very well or strong ; yet something
has happened to-day which makes me ardently
desire to drink your health."

Something very, very delightful ? " whispered
Cornelia. " I am so glad ! "

** Very delightful indeed," acquiesced my lord. " A
good dinner, some good wine, your charming society
for a little while, and then, if you'll excuse an invalid,
I'U go to rest."

After a good dinner and good wine of course he
would be excused, all replied in chorus. Such precious
health must be fondly cared for — bolstered, coddled.
They would one and all put him to bed and tuck him
up, and tie on his blessed nightcap — that they would ;
and if ever blessings produced sleep, his should be
profound. He hoped it would, he observed, smiling.
They were very kind, but he would dispense with the
ceremony of nightcap-tying, and consider it as done.
Dinner was waiting, and Monsieur Eude — late of
Rochford's — allowed no dallying. He was as much
outraged if his plats were kept waiting, as if the guests
were to put salt in their soup. Once an ignorant
person had so far transgressed, and Monsieur Eude
would have given warning if the peccant one had not
apologized. The houris did not quarrel much at
dinner. Each seemed to vie with the other in sweetness,
and their tempers became the more angelic on
account of their host's lavish promises. They were
to have new bracelets, rings, gowns, tippets — anything
; but they must say good-bye for the present, as
my lord was going to rest.

He went into his bedchamber, and sauntered up
and down, the same peculiar smile playing around
his mouth ; and as he walked, chuckled, now and again
repeating, "Osmington a pauper!" He bade his
valet prepare a warm bath with perfumes, and retire,
and not to come in next day till he was summoned.
Divesting himself of his plain frock, he gazed wistfully
on it for a while and sighed, and then softly
laughing, tickled by some conceit, began to unharness
himself of the numerous chains and breloques and
lockets, filled with divers-coloured hair, with which
he was usually entrapped. One miniature he took
from round his neck, and crushed it under his heel.
The silly creature," he muttered with pity. " The
only one who was ever faithful ; and much good came
of it ! " By this time the water was ready, clear and
sparkling, in the white marble bath. Warm towels
were ranged about a tiny stove ; sponges, brushes, perfumes,
close at hand. How cosy and comfortable it all
looked under the mellow glimmer of a shaded lamp !
The valet bowed low, and his master stood listening
to his departing footsteps as they echoed faintly away
in the long corridor. So cosy, so comfortable, so
quiet. No fear of interruption or annoyance in this
snug retreat ! With the morning would come the
clamorous clients, the rude and noisy .tradespeople,
perhaps a bailiff or two to add seasoning to the salad.
Osmington a pauper ! " repeated my lord, amused

"by the conceit. " What will they say of me tomorrow ?
A pack of nonsense. Who may judge whether the
motive which induces a man to leave the world is
adequate ? The sensations of different persons may
not be gauged by the same standard. An event that
touches one but slightly, drives another to insanity.
How inconsistent people are in their judgments !
Military leaders think nothing of killing off a thousand
or so in battle to aid a cause which concerns them
not. Yet what an outcry if an individual shows that
he agrees that life is valueless by deliberately resigning
it ! Poor Brinsley ! " Yere mused, with a passing
sadness. "What an end was his; and what an
existence at this moment is Brummel's ! Sheridan
lacked the courage ; yet sure he suffered infinitely more
than can come of one second's agony ? It is all over ;
and, upon my word, it Lias been so little pleasant on
the whole, that I cannot say I'm sorry."

The following afternoon there arose a terrible
outcry in the palace of the Islington. Scared
servants were running hither and thither aimlessly.
The houris were heaped together in inconsolable
groups, weeping tears of abortive greed. The valet,
after patiently waiting, had entered the bathroom ;
and there, with his head upon the marble, lay the
Earl of Osmington, in a profound sleep. There was
a hole behind the ear from which the black blood
oozed, and a pistol lay by his hand.

Chapter XIV.

YORKSHIRE AGAIN.

The excitement in the metropolis, when the news
spread, was tremendous, for Lord Osmington had, for
years and years, been a conspicuous figure in the
fashionable world ; courted on account of his princely
prodigality ; admired for his consistent indifference
to all laws, human and divine. He was a rum 'un,
the mob were wont to say; but he was a game
'un, and the way he would drive over an old
woman and take no notice of her screaming was
thoroughly artistic. So soon as they recovered from
the shock, there was a stampede among the houris.
The gates of the Ark were open wide, and through
them there poured a curious medley — a string of
birds and beasts, each after its kind, who stood not
upon the order of their going, but went, laden with as
much as could be carried. By nightfall the place was
silent, and the exodus complete — ^no living thing
moved in the empty house save the hired workers,
who busied themselves about the bed where lay the

smiling corpse. What a change ! What strange
advertisements appeared in the papers ! A Spanish
countess, an interesting widow, desired a place as companion.
A French lady, brought up in the first style of
elegance, wished to enter an orderly family. A foreign
gentleman of cheerful disposition and refined taste
wished to be attached to a nobleman of opulence ;
he had been in the habit of reading the newspapers,
answering invitations, and selecting snuff-boxes. An
engaging young Italian, who could speak six languages,
found himself unemployed ; he was familiar with
every quarter of the town, had genteel manners and
address, and was remarkable for secrecy and fidelity.
But why go through the list ? We have done with
the unsavoury company. The desires fled from the
scene of suicide ; the place of dancers, limpets, mushrooms,
pique-assiettes, knew them no more. The maids
of the neighbouring mansions had nothing henceforth
to look at through the gratings of the area ; for Fig,
the head groom, was gone with the horses, and John,
the coachman, had carried off the coaches ; the plate
had disappeared by magic, and my lord's own manservant
had humbly gleaned after the reapers.

For several days after the catastrophe, the Prince of
Wales was pensive and subdued. The last of the set
was gone — the last of the flaring circle of lights was
extinguished with a foul stench — and my lady
Hertford, with an effort, held her peace, for the octavo.

III. 60

sion required no homily. When he announced that
he intended to honour the new lord with a visit, she
nodded approval. Nothing could be more prudent or in
more graceful taste. The romance which hung over
his story turned the eyes of all London in the direction
of Lord Northallerton. To take up the whilom
protege of Caroline would look generous in the Kegent.
It would be a fine opportunity for flowery platitudes
about a " steady and uncompromising zeal for the
furtherance of truth and justice ; " and the world would
be led to see that although his Koyal Highness had
once been a friend of the deceased, he was ignorant
of his wicked tricks, and sorry for their partial success.
The Corsair was pleased at the turn events had taken,
and Charlotte took no pains to conceal her joy. That
Lord Osmington, finding his position impossible,
should have elected to carve a way out of it, was
fortunate for those who had caught him in their toils.
The prosecutor having departed this life, the question
of the forged letter need not be gone into, nor the
other question of the estates which he had done his
best to squander. Those estates had passed to Selina,
because James Christopher had survived his son, or
was supposed to have done so. The contrary being
proved, and a direct male heir found, the prize would
have to be disgorged after more or less quibbling
and litigation. It was well that Vere should have
cheated the lawyers of their spoil by retiring from the

contest. Charlotte embraced lier clear friend with
gushing affection, and whispered rapturous nonsense
in her ear ; but the latter was grown suddenly grave
and still ; oppressed, as it appeared, by the emptiness
which follows a task achieved, and appalled by what
she saw in front*'

It's nice of my father to go to the junketing,"
prattled the Princess. '' I wish years agone I'd
known him as well as I do now. And it's horridly
tiresome that I can't go, too. I'm sure I might, but
Leopold won't let me. You should have seen his face
when it was proposed. Do you know, I'd have pulled
his hair, if I had dared, for looking so priggish. But
you will be there, the heroine of the day, to do the
honours and receive the congratulations. What ! not
go ? A pretty thing for them all to be prancing and
dancing, and the originator of the festival absent ! "

My work is done," Abigel said uneasily. '*' There's
nothing to call me to Yorkshire any more. Indeed,
indeed, I would rather stay in town, where my new
place will be — my new life commence."

Toujours le beau cousin ! " laughed Charlotte ;
while Manfred looked up and whispered, '' Doucement."
"' Where is it to be, my dear ? Nay, I must know,
since 'tis my bounden duty to rise and forbid the

banns. * If anyone know cause or just impediment '

Yes, Mr. Parson, please ; I know many just causes and
impediments ; and, what is more, it shall never be.

I tell you, Abby, it shall not ; so we won't discuss the
question."

When the Princess spoke thus, Abigel looked much
concerned. It was dreadful that all who professed to
love her should set their faces against the inevitable.
Causes and impediments — what were they? She
could not see any. Leoline was about to take his
place among his peers, his proper place, which she
felt sure he would adorn. Cy, the good, the true, the
honest, ay, the ingenious and astute, had done her
bidding, and more than her bidding, and fairly won
his guerdon. Jacob never toiled for Rachel as Cy
had done for her. When she looked back at his behaviour,
its honesty and uprightness and sacrifice of
dearest aspirations, she was frightened in that he
should love her so. This great absorbing love was
a gift which she accepted with awe and tremor, as
something of which she was unworthy. But she
would try to be worthy of it ; oh yes, she would try
hard, and pray that he might never regret the gift.
What if she should be mistaken as to her strength —
be unable to make him happy in exchange for all he
had done ? That was not likely, for he was simple
and easily pleased. What about these Yorkshire festivities
? Must she really travel again over that
familiar road, and revisit Battle Magna ? Perhaps
her absence, all things considered, would look odd,,
and she did not wish to be food for idle gossip. If

she must go, she must. Cy was going, so were Cribbb
and Caleb Rannn. At Battle Magna she would make
a point of speaking to Cribbb, and of arranging the
future of his boy.

It came to pass that the Yorkshire road was alive
with vehicles ; for his Royal Highness the Prince
Regent was going north, and so was a goodly company.
The Princess Charlotte was expecting her confinement,
otherwise she would have accompanied her father.
Before starting he paid her a long visit, deeply gratifying
to both ; and she exacted a promise before he
left which seemed to relieve her mind. Leoline, upon
his release, was taken possession of by my lord Yarmouth,
who, in obedience to orders from his far-sighted
mother, made much of the poetic youth, swore that
his sonnets were perfection, and strolled arm-in-arm
on the " Grand Strut " with him, or lounged in Fops'
Alley by his side. Since his Royal Highness condescended
to undertake a wearisome journey to do
him honour. Lord Northallerton must see that a
proper reception was provided. Should his new ally
go with him to his new possessions, help to set things
in order, put this and that in fitting train ? It would
be most kind, if not too troublesome. Trouble ! what
was trouble ? Lord Yarmouth had often been associated
with the suicide, and would be glad of the
opportunity of showing that he regretted the contamination.
He would take arrangements on himself,

and the new peer might rest easy, certain that all
would be right. My lady Hertford desired a visit ere
he left, and would take no denial. Never was anything
half so romantic and delightful. He must look
on Hertford House as a home, on her as a second
mother. By-and-by she would provide him with a
noble wife, and then the picture would be complete.

Leoline was dazed by the turn of the wheel and
the felicitations that poured in' on him, and was glad
enough to escape ; but before he turned from the
metropolis he sought an interview with Abigel — in vain.
She who had been so frank and outspoken avoided
him now, fled at his approach like a startled doe.
What did she mean by it ? Never mind ; she promised
to be present at Battle Magna on the occasion
of his solemn entry, and she should not escape
him there. And what a scene it was ! The
Unicorn nearly tumbled off his perch over the
gateway when it became known that the Kegent
himself was coming to sleep at Ripon. The local
bands furbished their instruments to give him a
noisy if not harmonious reception. Marrow-bones
and cleavers became much in demand. Bunting
arrived from York to deck the thoroughfares. All
the neighbouring gardens were shorn of their fairest
bloom. The mayor got out his furred gown; the
bugler the silver horn, which on grand occasions performs
sweet symphonies in the centre of the marketplace.

Every one ^Yas to dine at the expense of the
new earl. Farmers in expectation of a lowering of
rents were boisterously gay, their wives and daughters
stark staring mad ; for was there not to be a ball in
an immense marquee, and was not the first gentleman
in Europe to foot it in the mazy dance ? As for Betty
Higgs, she was beside herself. Abigel had the forethought
to send her a new cap direct from the metropolis,
wherewith Madam Sally Scraggswas promptly
and utterly annihilated. Certainly the mise en scene
did credit to Eed Herrings. His Koyal Highness in a
splendid barouche, with the new peer by his side, was
dragged bowing and bending by a screaming crowd
from Ripon to Stratton-on-the-Fosse, where there
Averse speeches and addresses ; then on through the
park to the venerable pile, which had hastily been set
in order. It is all very fine to scoff at popularity
when you are unpopular, but to be cheered is vastly
pleasant. Affairs had been so gloomy for a long
while past that the Regent was. as used to being
hooted as in the grim days of the Dreadful Woman.
The minds of men were bent with more acerbity than
usual upon a redress of grievances, and some, made
bold by calamity and despair, spoke out in unvarnished
language. The result was a series of prosecutions,
conducted under the auspices of Lords Liverpool and
Sidmouth, which exasperated the people yet further.
They were crushed by debt, they said, numbed by

taxation wliicli had no longer for an excuse a monopoly
of commerce. The theory and practice of the constitution
were at variance, and, unable to procure
parliamentary reform, they ran after the Kegent and
yelled at him. How different in Yorkshire ! Lovely
ladies flung roses on his wig, pelted him with chrysanthemums.
If cantankerous London would only learn
a lesson in loyalty ! For two pins the Grand Signor
declared he would move his Court and come and reign
at Ripon — build teapots and pagodas there. The
ceremonies of the first day were touching, genuinely
conducive to tears. The programme for the second
would be more affecting still ; for the noble company
were to be conducted to the celebrated battle-field
where, in 1300, the original Leoline had protected the
Standard with his body, and the mayor was to orate
with wisdom. " Long live Plantagenet ! long live the
royal blood ! " had been shouted to-day with stentorian
lungs, and would be shrieked still louder tomorrow.
It was charming to see that the vieille souche was
appreciated in some localities. The evening of
the first day was to be passed in peace over a
quiet dinner, in order that strength might be
acquired for subsequent orgies. Eed Herrings,
who knew what he was about, had rescued the cook
out of the debris of the Osmington smash, and
brought him in his train. The great man had prepared
a diner de repos, sl superlative idyllic repast.

and having served it to perfection, set himself to think
out the ball supper, which was to he executed by an
army of mansions.

It was the first week in November, and warm for
the time of year. Battle Magna looked its best, clad
in its autumn garb ; for the turf of the pleasaunce,
though neglected, was vivid as an emerald, the yews
and pines sombrely rich, while the amphitheatre
behind was of every ruddy hue, from palest gold to
orange, from ruby to russet brown. The wild currant
bushes that fringed the stream were heavy with
scarlet berries ; leaves floated by, mottled with
crimson, stained with purple. The pale ruins of the
Cistercian abbey seemed more gaunt and hoar from
contrast with the wealth of colour. It was like this
that Abigel had learned to love the spot, wrapped in
its many-coloured mantle, and, dinner over, she stole
out into the gloaming to revive a train of memories
for the last time. The gentlemen were busy with
their wine, and would be so till midnight ; and, as
she was the only lady, she was like to be undisturbed.
The festivities were going off satisfactorily. There
was nothing to which the most fastidious could take
exception; indeed, the spontaneous delight of the
tenantry was as remarkable as touching. And to
think that she, frail little brown woman, had done it
aU ! Her heart swelling with pride, she looked from
the bridge by the mill over the grand domain, with

its temples, canals, spreading umbrageous woods ;
and sighed with thankfulness. It was a splendid present
from a maiden to a man, a royal gift. " Dear,
dear Leo ! " she murmured aloud. ''He deserves
it all, and, I hope, will be very happy." Idly plucking
a bunch of leaves, she tossed them into the stream,
and bent over the bridge to see them drift ; but perceiving
two heads reflected in the water instead
of one, she drew back with a great start, and said
sharply, " I wish you would not frighten a body so ! "

Leoline, who was standing close behind, laughed
slyly. 'you blush, as if detected in a crime," he
said. "Deserve it? Not a bit. Yet I accept the
present from you. I've caught you at last. Why do
you avoid me ? If I enter by one door, you run outby
another. Why ? "

What could she say? How explain the extreme
delicacy of her position ? How like a man to show so
little tact ! If poets are so high in the clouds that
they cannot see what passes on the earth, they ought
to stop in ether, and not attempt to meddle with
sublunary matters. Miss Kowe found it impossible to
tell her old playmate why, so she looked embarrassed,
and prepared to beat a retreat.

But Leoline, having caught her, seized both unwilling
hands, and held them. " I know all, Abigel,
my darling," he whispered ; " and I am so happy t
What have I done to have all that I desire — my

ancient name, the home of my ancestors, the daring
of my heart for wife ? "

The girl's hands grew cold, as she tried to disengage
herself. A chilling wave of desolation swept over the
heart of Cy's affianced, and she could scarcely breathe.
Her whole being seemed absorbed in the one
anguished yearning, " Oh, that I had never come ! "

** Before I left town, the Princess told me of what
I scarce dared to hope, and I told her my reasons
for silence, and she said I was a booby for my
pains. I told her how I had always loved my little
Abigel, but that I never said so, having no fitting
home to offer her, no money but what raj mistress
chose to give as largesse. I watched my darling
delve and dig, and still held my tongue ; for if she
had known that it was for her alone I cared to
wear the title, she would have ceased to work for it.
Women are so contrary ! But now it is won, and she
hath bestowed it on me — to give it back to her again.
Sometimes I feared that she liked somebody else
better than poor me ; but the Princess assures me
that it is otherwise, and so I claim you as my own —
my very own — my darling, without so much as asking
your consent ! "

Leo tried to clasp her in his arms ; but Abigel, pale
as a ghost, with gleaming eyes, tore herself away.

Oh, Leo ! " she panted. " How wicked of the
Princess ! How unkind ! Why did I ever come ? "

Leoline was disconcerted by the violence of the
girl's emotion. Could the Princess have been mistaken
? Did she not care for him, after all ?
Speak the truth," he said, in his turn growing
white, "alone together under the stars. If you
cannot care for me, God's will be done. Without
yourself, all that you have given me is valueless, of
no more real worth than to the poor dead to whom
you've given a name."

This was more than she felt called upon to bear.
You know," she said reproachfully, " that I'm the
promised wife of Cy."

Poor Cy ! " Leo murmured sadly.

Poor Cy ! 'Twas re-echoed in her own heart ; for
this revelation on the part of her playfellow had
thrown her mind agog. Knowing that she was
engaged to another, how wrong to make this confession
! Too confused as yet to think clearly, she
only knew that a harvest was being garnered of
future regret and sorrow — of lifelong repining. If
she had dared to suppose that Leo under enforced

reserve could really love her But it was wicked

of him to tell her now. She would hear no more,
speak to him no more, and escape as soon as might
be from the baleful influence, which she felt with
horror that she was not strong enough to combat.

Quickly she moved along the path, despairing,
on towards the house, longing for the privacy of her

chamber, where, locked in, she could give vent to her
sorrow. " Poor Cy ! " she thought. " He shall never,
never know. That gruesome secret, at least, shall befor
ever locked within m}^ breast, all through life unto
the end." The end ! To one so full of buoyancy how
far away it seemed — the end — yet now in her newborn
agony and terror she hungered for release !
The future, which she had striven so hard to look
at cheerfully, now, bereft of glamour, was appalling ;
and, as with repulsion she surveyed it in its new
aspect, she felt an overwhelming pity for her cousin,
in that it was no fault of his. Unhinged, sore
troubled, she could not trust herself to speak with
any one ; a passing inanity of complaint would be an
extra thrust under which she would possibly succumb.
Solitude, nothing but solitude ! A night of prayer
and reason, and tomorrow she would come forth with
a calm face, at least, though her soul should be rent
asunder.

Noiselessly she sped along the path, followed slowly
at a distance by the bewildered Leoline, who could
not understand her conduct ; and flitted up the steps
to the terrace, bent on reaching her room by a back
staircase allotted to the servants. Some one was
standing in the hall, warming his feet before the fire.
Cyrus himself ! What brought him from the village,
where he was staying with his fellows? He of all
men on earth ! She could not talk to him now. He

turned, and, as Leo had done, held out both his
hands. Involuntarily she tendered hers, chill little
hands like ice, and, standing benignly over her, he
chafed them in his big palms.

Poor Abby ! my poor bird ! " he whispered, with a
strange compassion. "Does it hurt you so ? I can
be very sorry for you, feeling as I do myself."

Abigel looked up inquiringly, striving hard to control
the trembling of her lips.

'' Take it back, Abby; for 'twas too good for me.
I should have known it, if I had not been a zany."

Take back— what— Cy ? " faltered Abigel.

*the love you promised me, my dear, and which
was not yours to give."

Cyrus," murmured the girl, '^ you won me
loyally ; and freely I give myself."

Take my bird to keep it in a cage, where it will
break its wings and batter its plumage ? No. I was
a presumptuous jackadandy even to dream that it
was possible. I don't blame you for the pain ; you
could not help it, dear. Cribbb warned me times out
of number ; but, wise in my own conceit, forsooth, I
didn't choose to be convinced. But I know now "

What do you know ? " whispered Abigel, her brain
in a whirl. " I do love you, Cy, most dearly. How
ungrateful I should be if I did not ! "

"You love me through gratitude," sighed her
cousin, gently. *' With that I must be content. His

Royal Highness himself deigned to send for me, and
told me what I should have known without the telling ;
and I give it you back, my dear, more freely and
frankly than you gave it."

'freight, my lad!" cried a cheery voice out of the
gloom, from which emerged the body form of Mr.
Cribbb. Seated in the shadow, Abigel had not perceived
his presence. " Eight, my boy ! Do what's
right, and shame the devil. It's well over, I say, as
the woman said who hanged her husband. You both
would have been sorry in the end, when it was too
late ; and his Royal Highness has conferred another
of many favours in occupying himself with your
affairs. Come, come, my bonny lass ; you must not
dim those bright eyes of yours with crying. We've
had a deal too many tears of late. Don't fret because
you can't have both the boys ! I expect you to dance
nth me tomorrow at the ball, unless I'm too old and

ugly."

Leoline appeared in the doorway, and seeing the
group, stood there irresolute, till Cyrus beckoned him
to approach.

"Leo," the latter said quietly — "if I may be
allowed once more to call your lordship by the old
familiar name — she has worked hard to win for you
this splendid present ; I now give you a yet more
precious one. Go to him, Abby dear, and pray God
he may make you happy ! "

Cyrus placed his cousin, sobbing bitterly, in the
arms of the amazed young lord, and, pushing the
burly Cribbb before him with scant ceremony, moved
away with bowed head.

'* That is a noble fellow ! " Leo said presently.
There was a moment of embarrassed silence. Then
he whispered, " If you won't have Lord Northallerton ^
will you take the blacksmith's 'prentice ? "

Abigel made no reply, but, leaning wearily upon
his bosom, continued silently to weep. Without consent
in words, she had in that self-same house
accepted Cyrus ; and now its new possessor was fain
to take silence for consent.

CHAPTER XV.

UNEXPECTED NEWS.

The projected ball which had exercised my lord
Yarmouth's artistic accomplishments, and had set
so many local female bosoms fluttering, never took
place ; for the gladness of the little knot of pleasure -
seekers was doomed to be swallowed in the great wave
of mourning which suddenly enveloped England.
The very next day after the triumphal entry, a
mounted courier came galloping up the neglected
approach, dusty and travel-stained, a bearer of evil
tidings. Where were my lords Yarmouth and
Northallerton ? There was awful news, terrible news,
which had fallen on London like a thunderbolt ! It
must be broken to his Royal Highness gently, Lady
Hertford said, for of all calamities that could have
happened, it was the most grievous. "Merciful
Heaven ! " cried Lord Yarmouth, turning a shade less
red; 'what is it? The Prince is at his toilet, preparing
to receive a deputation. News ! Has the
Princess of Wales returned to England ? " No; worse

VOL. III. 61

than that. The confinement of the Princess Charlotte
was over, and after five hours' labour she was dead.

The guests who had come down to breakfast
gathered in hushed groups, horror-stricken. She
whose womanhood had dawned with such sunny promises
after a childhood of thunder and rain, had been
plucked away without warning. No one expected
such an end. When parting from her father a few
days before, she had said with her sweet smile, " I
am the happiest woman in all this lovely world, for
I have not a wish ungratified." And now she was
gone. All that remained was lying under a mass of
flowers, stiff and stark, beside a still-born son ; while'
Leopold, crouching dry-eyed on a sofa, prayed for
strength to bear. The blow, so utterly unexpected,
fell with stunning effect. The scowling lower orders,
forgetting private grievances, met their natural
enemies upon common ground ; the loss was national,
and the whole nation mourned.

The Prince of Wales, who had of late received so
many shocks, was bowed to the earth. Was nothing
ever to go right with him any more ? That autumn
leaves should drop around and swirl about his feet
was natural, but that this one bud of hope should be
blasted to whom all parties looked ; this tie of affection
broken between himself and his people, which, through
suspicion of his wife, he had chosen for so long to
consider with an eye of jealousy — was too dreadful to

be realized at once. Backed by remorse and unavailing
sorrow, he forgot Charlotte's little faults —
her warm temper, obstinacy, brusqueness, tomboy
manners, exuberant forwardness ; and saw nothing
but the bright young mother lying in an early grave.
The brief gleam of happiness had improved her
vastly, had softened the rough edges of her character ;
and when, as had been much the case of late, father
and child were thrown together, the idea had struck
him hazily that years hence, when he was no longer
young, it might be well to have a warm-hearted, affectionate
daughter to supervise his comforts. But that
pleasant prospect was dashed, as, for him, all was
shattered which bade fair to be agreeable. Caroline
would not die, not she ; she would live yet to plague
him for half a century. Only t'other day a letter of hers
had fallen into his hands, in which she wrote, " Since
de English won't give me de great honour of being
Princesse de Galles, I will be Caroline, a happy, merry
soul. The old Begum, de Queen, is on her last legs,
I hear ; mais ca ne me fait ni froid ni chaud. There
was a time when I should have been glad, but now
noting in de world do I care for save to pass de time
quickly." Dear amiable creature ! She received the
news of Charlotte's tragic fate with perfect apathy,
too much absorbed m the enjoyment of her eccentric
freedom to heed such a trifle. But enough of the
Dreadful Woman.

My lord Eldon, who had been wont to bully his
young mistress, was present at Charlotte's death-bed,
and was deeply moved by the kind hints thrown out
whereby he was to know that she had forgiven his
sallies. There were few others there ; for, by a curious
chance, the members of the royal family were
scattered to the winds of heaven. The Regent, we
know, was in the country ; the Queen was at Bath ;
Kent at Brussels; Cambridge at Hanover; und so
tester. And so the young thing started on her journey
with none for whom she cared to wish her God-speed,
except her distracted and bereaved husband.

Abigel grieved sincerely for her friend, and was
drawn by the poignancy of present sorrow from the
consideration of her private woes. In truth, she
passed a painful night, and issued from her chamber
trim and neat, but with, oh, such a gloomy visage !
Twisting and turning on her couch, she had endeavoured
with all her strength of will to be satisfied
with the aspect of affairs, to be pleased with her own
behaviour. But it would not do; and, after futile
efforts to forget, she rose, depressed and feverish, and
watched the growing dawn. Were people right who
called her a coquetting flirt ? She had resolved to
be so heroic, to link her arm within that of Cjrrus
and make him happy, to sweeten her matrimonial
tea with a consciousness of virtuous abnegation. She
was to be a willing sacrifice. Then had come the

interview with Leslie and bis confession. Her
impulse was to run away and bide, and tussle with
Apollyon in a dark corner, and, winning a bard-earned
victory, to tire ber bead and w^asb ber face, and say
nothing at all about it. That was ber sturdy view
of heroism and of duty. Cy should never know about
that tussle in the dark corner. For him she was
always to wear a smiling mask, however sore ber
heart; and time would soften the sharpness of the
pain, and she would be able some day to sit calmly
by ber hearth with lines of silver in her raven hair,
perfectly unruffled and content. A suspicion had
crossed ber mind from poor Charlotte's badinage that
the Princess might some of these days air her matchmaking
procHvities for her behoof, and bad settled to
her own satisfaction that she would marry Cyrus
quickly — of course he would be only too delighted — to
prevent distasteful meddling. But somehow the situation
bad come about quite differently from the way she
bad prepared herself to meet it. Leo had taken possession,
as if there could be no doubt as to ber own
feelings ; and when she revolted from that piece of ill-timed
impudence, lo, Cyrus himself turned round and
laid ber on bis rival's breast. The worst of it all was,
that in her heart of hearts she was glad. But at the
same time she was humiliated ; for the inward monitor
declared in accents which would be beard that she
was playing le rule ridicule, while Cy carried off the

ABIGEL ROWE.

honours. She had behaved like a coquette. This
it was that rankled as she lay and tossed ; and she
had resolved that she would summon courage to tell
Leoline it might not be, and run away somewhere
quite alone without any luggage. But, on emerging,
resolute, from her chamber, she came face to face
with Thomas.

The full-moon of Mr. Cribbb was so radiant, he
looked so pleased, that in her dissatisfied mood Miss
Kowe could have boxed his ears with satisfaction.
Papa Cribbb was come to gloat over her false position,
and glory in the emancipation of his boy. It was
impertinent and cruel ! Jerking her chin, Abigel
endeavoured to pass, but the Champion spread his
broad form across the staircase.

'* All's well that ends well," he said. " You two
foolish young people have learnt to know your minds,
thank Heaven. Do you really think you could have
been happy serving the Fancy in a bar-parlour ?
That's what it would have come to. Cy has told
me that you had at least the grace not to stand in
his light."

*'I intended to tell you so," replied Abigel, with
dignity. " He shall pluck his laurels unopposed by
me. In his wife you'll never find an obstacle."

Cribbb shook his bullet head waggishly. "I trust
not, when he finds one. To make a marriage," he

observed, ^vitli a gruff guffaw, "it requires two to say
I will.' In a hysterical and high-flown state of mind,
you'd be silly enough to say it, I've no doubt, and
ready to bite your tongue out after ; but Cy will not.
He ain't hysterical. With you by the altar rail he'll
never say ' I will ; ' thank the Lord, there's no longer
any doubt of that."

Abigel had much ado to restrain her tears. Not
only did Thomas gloat, but likewise gibe. It was
vulgar and unmanly ; and she was making another
effort to escape, when he took her hand and held it.

'come, come," he said "don't be cross, but
reasonable. Why are some girls so perverse that they
fight and kick against what's best for 'em ? You're
willing to sacrifice yourself when it isn't necessary,
and be a martyr; well and good, and a monstrous
captivating one, too. But why make a martyr of
poor Cy ? Does he deserve it ? Do you think that
by the light of his affection he would not learn to
read your thoughts; and do you think that, seeing
you morbidly unsatisfied and fi-getting, he would not
be miserable ? With everything favourable — fair
wind, trim craft, new sails and cordage — folks find it
hard enough to weather the matrimonial storm. If
with everything sunshiny married people find it so
difficult to get along straight and comfortable, surely
to start handicapped is a tempting of Providence !

If you don't choose to consider yourself, consider
him, and think no more of what would be certain
disaster to your cousin."

Abigel was crushed. How strange that in all her
self-communing and dissections and examinations
she had never seen the matter in this light ! It had
appeared so easy to make Cyrus happy, that she had
never doubted her capacity in that direction if she
chose to exert it. Her thoughts had always been
directed to her own powers of endurance, not to his.
The anchors were dragging, the bark was insecurely
moored. With a new feeling of helplessness, she
realized that as a pilot she was a failure. Like a child
lost in a crowd, she looked about bewildered for someone
to clutch. It had seemed so easy to set everything
to rights. With the sweet superiority of the
extremely young, who, knowing so little, think they
know so much, she had always been ready to show
the path to each ; and now she was herself groping in
the trackless forest. Whilst putting on a simple robe,
she had rehearsed half an hour since what she would
say to Leoline : how she would explain that she could
never be his countess, the bride of a Plantagenet ;
that, born of the people, her lot must needs be lowly ;
that he must seek a mate among the nobly born.
But somehow, when he appeared below presently, and
mounted the stairs with a letter in his hand and deep
concern upon his brow, and embraced her as if by

right, she had nothing to say, and was powerless to
offer resistance ; and when he broke to his dear love,
in tender tone, that the one cherished friend of her
own sex was gone, never to be seen again, it was to
him she turned for consolation.

:S- * * ■* *

In looking over a heap of rubbish which I have just
turned out of a dusty drawer, I come upon three yellow
printed shipping. All have reference to the noble
dirt.

In the first I read that Caleb Ann, better known
as the Pink of Bow, after a short and unsuccessful
career — his internal organs diseased by body-punishers
and a protracted course of excess — was taken into the
workhouse infirmary of Marylebone ; and that therein
the spring of 1820, he succumbed, and, having
donned his wooden waistcoat, was buried by the
parish.

The second scrap is less lugubrious, and purports to
be cut from the Morning Herald of the 18th of May,
1822. It reads thus: "On Saturday, the Champion
of England made his last bow to the amateurs at the
Fives-courts. Cribbb and the Sprig of Myrtle ascended
the stage, the former decorated with the belt, and in
the friendly set-to that followed, Tom showed himself
as game as ever. Then the awful moment arrived
Ashen he had to say Farewell. He scratched his nob,
and though his heart was full of gratitude, the chaffer

forsook its office. At length he stammered out with
emotion, ' Gentlemen — I thank you sincerely for the
favours you have conferred on me ; I do, indeed, and
may your purses never fail you.' Cribbb now retired
amidst a waving of handkerchiefs and hats ; and
Cyrus Smalley, exceedingly agitated, addressed the
public in these words : ' My lords and gentlemen —
My dear old dad retires this day from public life —
God bless him ! — and leaves the belt open to be won.
I have stood next to him for some time past, and
mean to stand in his place till I am beat out of it.' "

The third fragment bears no date, but evidently
once formed part of a weekly of Mr. Egan's. *sin
less than three years he has fought ten prize battles,
and though still holding the belt, has fairly earned his
rest. His friends and admirers, headed by the Duke
of Beaufort, have bought the lease and goodwill of the
Waterman's Arms at Stagnate, a slap-up lushing crib,
frequented by the sporting world. Peers and costermongers,
warm admirers all, will help to boil his pot,,
and over the social glass he will fight his victories o'er
and o'er again."

The last time I saw Cyrus Smalley was at Battle
Magna, in the warm glow of midsummer. Hale and
stout, and good-humoured as of yore, he was teaching
a small boy, with blue eyes and golden locks, to
assume the favourite Beecher attitude, while my lord
and my lady Northallerton looked fondly on.

Leonine, with his arm round his wife's waist, was
bestowing indiscriminate applause. "Brava!" he
cried, laughing. " Brava, my phick}^ little Leo !
Learn to use sour fists betimes. 'Twould be better
for me if I had done so instead of scribbling verses ;
for, indeed, your dear mamma is a terrible gray mare
an angel and a darling — but a tyrant ! "

L'ENVOI.

I MAY possibly be accused by adherents of Queen
caroline (if any such really still exist) of indelicacy
in raking up old scandals, of heinous wickedness in
flinging mud at a departed and injured saint. I am
willing calmly to bear the brunt of such accusations,
having reason to be convinced that my portrait of the
lady is like ; and feeling, moreover, assured that, party
spirit and biassed rancour having had time to die, it is
well that blame should lie at the right door. There
are old people still living who mumble the truth now
of the vanished martyr, and admit that George IV.
was, to an unusual extent, a victim of circumstances.

It has given me much satisfaction to find — since
this novel was written — the following passages in
the autobiography of Prince Metternich, one of the
shrewdest judges of character of his century, and a
person who could look with regretful but quite unprejudiced
eyes upon the proceedings in the British
Laundry : —

June 16, 1820. Queen Caroline has arrived in

Dover, and was drawn by the hands of the people
from Dover to Canterbury. This does not astonish
me. A virtuous Queen, worthy of the Crown, would
in all probability be bespattered with mud by the
people ; she, of course, must be drawn in triumph "
(Metternich, vol. iii. p. 380).

I gather that the shameful trial makes a shocking
impression in England. What icoiild it he if people
liiew the circumstances more exactly ? No English
mothers can allow their daughters to read the newspapers
for a long time to come '' (Ibid., p. 384).

THE END.

fringed BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. G. C. 6" C,
